CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
EMAIL AUTHENTICATION
Email authentication technology makes it a lot harder for a scammer to
send phishing emails that look like they’re from your company.
Using email authentication technology makes it a lot harder for scammers to send phishing emails.
This technology allows a receiving server to verify an email from your company and block emails
from an imposter — or send them to a quarantine folder and then notify you about them.
KNOW
WHAT TO
Some web host providers let you set up your company’s business email using your domain name (which
you may think of as your website name). Your domain name might look like this: yourbusiness.com. And
your email may look like this: name@yourbusiness.com. Without email authentication, scammers can use
that domain name to send emails that look like they’re from your business. If your business email uses your
company’s domain name, make sure that your email provider has these three email authentication tools:
Sender Policy Framework (SPF) Domain-based Message Authentication,
Reporting & Conformance (DMARC)
tells other servers which servers are allowed to
send emails using your business’s domain name. So
is the essential third tool for email
when you send an email from name@yourbusiness.
authentication. SPF and DKIM verify the address
com, the receiving server can confirm that the
the server uses “behind the scenes.” DMARC
sending server is on an approved list. If it is, the
verifies that this address matches the “from”
receiving server lets the email through. If it can’t find
address you see. It also lets you tell other
a match, the email can be flagged as suspicious.
servers what to do when they get an email that
looks like it came from your domain, but the
Domain Keys Identified Mail (DKIM)
receiving server has reason to be suspicious
puts a digital signature on outgoing mail so servers (based on SPF or DKIM). You can have other
can verify that an email from your domain actually servers reject the email, flag it as spam, or take
was sent from your organization’s servers and hasn’t no action. You also can set up DMARC so that
been tampered with in transit. you’re notified when this happens.
It takes some expertise to configure these tools so that they work as intended and don’t block legitimate
email. Make sure that your email hosting provider can set them up if you don’t have the technical
knowledge. If they can’t, or don’t include that in their service agreement, consider getting another provider.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness