CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
HOW TO
WHAT IF YOU FALL FOR A
PROTECT
PHISHING SCHEME
YOUR BUSINESS
Back up your data Alert others
Regularly back up your data and Talk to your colleagues and share your
make sure those backups are not experience. Phishing attacks often happen to
connected to the network. That more than one person in a company.
way, if a phishing attack happens
and hackers get to your network, Limit the damage
you can restore your data. Make
data backup part of your routine Immediately change any compromised
business operations. passwords and disconnect from the network any
computer or device that’s infected with malware.
Keep your security
up to date Follow your company’s procedures
Always install the latest patches These may include notifying specific people
and updates. Look for additional in your organization or contractors that help
means of protection, like email you with IT.
authentication and intrusion
prevention software, and set them Notify customers
to update automatically on your
If your data or personal information was
computers. On mobile devices,
compromised, make sure you notify the
you may have to do it manually.
affected parties — they could be at risk of
identity theft. Find information on how to do that
Alert your staff
at Data Breach Response: A Guide for Business
(FTC.gov/DataBreach).
Share with them this information.
Keep in mind that phishing
scammers change their tactics Report it
often, so make sure you include
Forward phishing emails to spam@uce.
tips for spotting the latest phishing
gov (an address used by the FTC) and to
schemes in your regular training.
reportphishing@apwg.org (an address used
by the Anti-Phishing Working Group, which
Deploy a safety net
includes ISPs, security vendors, financial
Use email authentication institutions, and law enforcement agencies). Let
technology to help prevent the company or person that was impersonated
phishing emails from reaching know about the phishing scheme. And report it
your company’s inboxes in the to the FTC at FTC.gov/Complaint.
first place.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness