ISSN 2348-1196 (print)
International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology Research ISSN 2348-120X (online)
Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp: (373-377), Month: April-June 2014, Available at: www.researchpublish.com
Local Talk: Local Talk is a network protocol that was developed by Apple Computer, Inc. for Macintosh computers. The
method used by Local Talk is called CSMA/CA (Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Avoidance). It is similar to
CSMA/CD except that a computer signals its intent to transmit before it actually does so. Local Talk adapters and special
twisted pair cable can be used to connect a series of computers through the serial port.
Token Ring: The Token Ring protocol was developed by IBM in the mid-1980s. The access method used involves token-
passing. In Token Ring, the computers are connected so that the signal travels around the network from one computer to
another in a logical ring. A single electronic token moves around the ring from one computer to the next.
FDDI: Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI) is a network protocol that is used primarily to interconnect two or more
local area networks, often over large distances. The access method used by FDDI involves token-passing. FDDI uses a
dual ring physical topology.
ATM: Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM) is a network protocol that transmits data at a speed of 155 Mbps and higher.
ATM works by transmitting all data in small packets of a fixed size; whereas, other protocols transfer variable length
packets. ATM supports a variety of media such as video, CD-quality audio, and imaging. ATM employs a star topology,
which can work with fiber optic as well as twisted pair cable.
Gigabit Ethernet: The most latest development in the Ethernet standard is a protocol that has a transmission speed of 1
Gbps. Gigabit Ethernet is primarily used for backbones on a network at this time. In the future, it will probably also be
used for workstation and server connections.
V. APPLICATIONS
Applications of wireless technology:
Mobile telephones
One of the best-known examples of wireless technology is the mobile phone, also known as a cellular phone, with more
than 4.6 billion mobile cellular subscriptions worldwide as of the end of 2010.
Wireless data communications
Wireless data communications are an essential component of mobile computing. The various available technologies differ
in local availability, coverage range and performance, and in some circumstances, users must be able to employ multiple
connection types and switch between them.
Wi-Fi is a wireless local area network that enables portable computing devices to connect easily to the Internet.
Standardized as IEEE 802.11 a,b,g,n, Wi-Fi approaches speeds of some types of wired Ethernet. Wi-Fi has become the de
facto standard for access in private homes.
Cellular data service offers coverage within a range of 10-15 miles from the nearest cell site. Speeds have increased as
technologies have evolved, from earlier technologies such as GSM, CDMA and GPRS, to 3G networks such as W-
CDMA, EDGE or CDMA2000.
Mobile Satellite Communications may be used where other wireless connections are unavailable, such as in largely rural
areas or remote locations. Satellite communications are especially important for transportation, aviation, maritime and
military use.
Wireless Sensor Networks are responsible for sensing noise, interference, and activity in data collection networks. This
allows us to detect relevant quantities, monitor and collect data, formulate meaningful user displays, and to perform
decision-making functions
Wireless energy transfer
Wireless energy transfer is a process whereby electrical energy is transmitted from a power source to an electrical load
that does not have a built-in power source, without the use of interconnecting wires. There are two different fundamental
methods for wireless energy transfer. They can be transferred using either far-field methods that involve beam
Page | 37 5
Research Publish Journals