4.2.4. Types of Phishing Scams
Explain the different types of Phishing scams.
OR
Discuss various types of Phishing Scams. (10M)
1. Deceptive Phishing
 Phishing scams started by broadcasting deceptive E-Mail messages with objective of
ID theft.
 E-Mails are broadcasted to a wide group of netizens asking about the need to verify
banking account information/system failure requiring users to re-enter their personal
information.
 The netizens easily get enticed and reveal their information by responding to these
E-Mails and/or clicking on weblinks or signing onto a fake website designed by the
phisher.
2. Malware-based Phishing
 It refers to scams that involve running Malicious Code on the netizens system.
 Malware can be launched as an E-Mail attachment or as a downloadable file from a
website or by exploiting known security vulnerabilities.
 For example, small and medium businesses are always found to be ignorant to keep their
operating systems (OS) antivirus software up to date with latest patch updates released
by vendors.
3. Keyloggers
 A small integrity program to steal information sends to phisher, keylogger log, to the
phisher through the Internet.
 The keyloggers can also be embedded into netizen's browser as a small utility
program which can start automatically when the browser is opened or can be
embedded into system holes as device drivers.
4. Session hijacking 
 It is an attack in which netizens' activities are monitored until they establish their
bonafide credentials by signing into their account or begin the transaction and at that
point the Malicious Code takes over and comport unauthorized actions such as
transferring funds without netizen's knowledge.
5. In-session Phishing another parallel session in the same browser.:
 It is a Phishing attack based upon one web browsing session being able to detect the
presence of another session (such as visit to an online banking website) on the same web
browser and then a pop-up window is launched that pretends to be opened from the
targeted session
6. Web Trojans
 Pops up to collect netizen's credentials and transmit them to the phisher while netizens
are attempting to log in. Such pop-ups are usually invisible
7. Pharming I
 It is a new threat evolved with a goal to steal online identity of the netizens and Pharming
 Is known as one of the "P" in cybercrime
 
In Pharming, following two techniques are used:
 Hosts file poisoning:
 The most popular operating system (OS) in the world is Windows and It has "host names"
in their "hosts" file.
Jy othi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 13