Computer-Based Social Engineering
 Computer-based social engineering refers to an attempt made to get the required/desired
information by using computer software/Internet.
 For example, sending a fake E-Mail to the user and asking him/her to re-enter a
password in a webpage to confirm it.
1. Fake E-Mails:
 The attacker sends fake E-Mails (see Box 2.7) to users in such that the user finds it as a
real e-mail.
 This activity is also called “Phishing”.
 It is an attempt to attract the Internet users (netizens) to reveal their personal information,
such as usernames, passwords and credit card details by impersonating as a
trustworthy and legitimate organization or an individual.
 Banks, financial institutes and payment gateways are the common targets.
 Phishing is typically carried out through E-Mails or instant messaging and often directs
users to enter details at a website, usually designed by the attacker with abiding the look
and feel of the original website.
 Thus, Phishing is also an example of social engineering techniques used to fool netizens.
 The term “Phishing” has been evolved from the analogy that Internet scammers are using
E-Mails attract to fish for passwords and financial data from the sea of Internet users (i.e.,
netizens).
 The term was coined in 1996 by hackers who were stealing AOL Internet accounts by
scamming passwords without the knowledge of AOL users.
 As hackers have a tendency of replacing “f” with “ph,” the term “Phishing” came into
being.
2. E-Mail attachments:
 E-Mail attachments are used to send malicious code to a victim’s system, which will
automatically (e.g., keylogger utility to capture passwords) get executed.
 Viruses, Trojans, and worms can be included cleverly into the attachments to entice a
victim to open the attachment.
3. Pop-up windows:
 Pop-up windows are also used, in a similar manner to E-Mail attachments. Pop-up
windows with special offers or free stuff can encourage a user to unintentionally install
malicious software.
2.4 Cyberstalking
 The dictionary meaning of “stalking” is an “act or process of following prey stealthily –
trying to approach somebody or something.”
 Cyberstalking has been defined as the use of information and communications
technology, particularly the Internet, by an individual or group of individuals to harass
another individual, group of individuals, or organization.
 The behavior includes false accusations, monitoring, transmission of threats, ID theft,