In this case your rooter will be destination MAC address that your PC will communicate
with they are two types of ARP entries Static and dynamic.
Most of the time you will use dynamic ARP and trees what does means that the ARP entry
(the Ethernet Mac to the IP address link) is kept on a device for some period of time as
long as it is being used.
The opposite of a dynamic ARP entry is static ARP entry. With the static ARP entry, you
are manually entering the link between the Ethernet MAC address and IP address because
of Management headache that lack of insignificant negative to using dynamic entries are
used most of the time.
7. Expalin the Forensic Analysis of E-Mail
8. Briefly explain RFC2822
Forensics Analysis of E-Mail
Criminal use fake mail for various cybercrime offences. there are tools available but help create fake
mail. forensic analysis of email is an important aspect of Cyber forensic analysis.
It help established the authenticity of an email when suspected.
As we know email are the common means of communication word White and the often the subject
of forensic analysis.
Email system is the hardware and software that controls the flow of email.
The two most important components of an email system are the email server and email gateway.
Email server are computer set forward collect store and deliver an email to their clients and email
gateways are the connections between the email server.
Mail server software is a network software that controls the flow of email and the mail clients of their
helps each user read compose send and delete messages and email consists of two parts the header
and the body.
Message he does are the important part of investigating email messages.
Theatre of an email is very important from forensic point of you a full header view of an email
provides the inter part of emails journey from its Origins to its destination. the header view include
sleep originating IP address and other useful information.
Header information very sweet email service provider Email application and system configuration.
Box 5.6: Electronic messages and an Indian Evidence Act
Section 88 of Indian Evidence Act is about presumption as an telegraphic messages it
states the following
Presumption as to telegraphic messages the court may presume that a message forwarded
from a telegraph office to the person to whom such message for ports to be address
corresponds with the message delivered for transmission at the office from which the
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 12