2.6 Botnets: The Fuel for Cybercrime
2.6.1 Botnet
 The dictionary meaning of Bot is “(computing) an automated program for doing some
particular task, often over a network.”
 Botnet is a term used for collection of software robots, or Bots, that run autonomously
and automatically.
 The term is often associated with malicious software but can also refer to the network of
computers using distributed computing software.
 In simple terms, a Bot is simply an automated computer program One can gain the
control of computer by infecting them with a virus or other Malicious Code that gives the
access.
 Computer system maybe a part of a Botnet even though it appears to be operating
normally.
 Botnets are often used to conduct a range of activities, from distributing Spam and
viruses to conducting denial-of-service (DoS) attacks.
 A Botnet (also called as zombie network) is a network of computers infected with a
malicious program that allows cybercriminals to control the infected machines remotely
without the users’ knowledge.
 “Zombie networks” have become a source of income for entire groups of cybercriminals.
The invariably low cost of maintaining a Botnet and the ever diminishing degree of
knowledge required to manage one are conducive to the growth in popularity and,
consequently, the number of Botnets.
 If someone wants to start a “business” and has no programming skills, there are plenty of
“Bot for sale” offers on forums.
 ‘encryption of these programs’ code can also be ordered in the same way to protect them
from detection by antivirus tools.
 Another option is to steal an existing Botnet. Figure 2.8 explains how Botnets create
business.
 One can reduce the chances of becoming part of a Bot by limiting access into the system.
 Leaving your Internet connection ON and unprotected is just like leaving the front door
of the house wide open.
One can ensure following to secure the system:
1. Use antivirus and anti-Spyware software and keep it up-to-date:
2. Set the OS to download and install security patches automatically:
3. Use a firewall to protect the system from hacking attacks while it is connected on the
Internet: A firewall is a software and/or hardware that is designed to block unauthorized
access while permitting authorized communications.
4. Disconnect from the Internet when you are away from your computer:
5. Downloading the freeware only from websites that are known and trustworthy:
6. Check regularly the folders in the mail box – “sent items” or “outgoing” – for those