other words, whenever two human beings come into contact. something from one is
exchanged to the other, that is, dust, skin cells, hair etc.
Link to know more: https://science.howstuffworks.com/locards-exchange-
principle.htm/printable (11 September 20o9)
5.5.1. The Rules of Evidence
According to the "Indian Evidence Act 1872," "Evidence" means and includes:
1. All statements which the court permits or requires to be made before it by witnesses, in
relation to matters of fact under inquiry, are called oral evidence.
2. All documents that are produced for the inspection of the court are called
documentary evidence.
Legal community believes that "electronic evidence" is a new breed of evidence. They also, at
times, have an apprehension that the law of evidence as per Indian Evidence Act of 1872 may not
hold good for electronic evidence. Some lawyers express doubts and apprehensions about the
process of leading electronic evidence in the courts. However, this is not true; the traditional
principles of leading evidence, along with certain newly added provisions in the Indian Evidence
Act 1972 through the Information Technology Act (ITA) 2000, constitute the body of law
applicable to electronic evidence. The challenges, however, need to be understood from the "rules
of evidence" perspective.
Paper evidence, the process is clear and intuitively obvious. Digital evidence by its very nature
Invisible to the eye. Therefore, the evidence must be developed using tools other than the is human
eye.
There are number of contexts involved in actually identifying a piece of digital evidence:
1. Physical context: It must be definable in its physical form, that is, it should reside on a
specific piece of media.
2. Logical context: It must be identifiable as to its logical position, that is, where does it
reside relative to the file system.
3. Legal context: We must place the evidence in the correct context to read its meaning, this
may require looking at the evidence as machine language, for example, American Standard
Code for Information Interchange (ASCII).
The path taken by digital evidence can be conceptually depicted as shown in Fig. 5.3.
Fig. 5.3: Path of the digital evidence.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 10