• while the main focus of "computer security is to computer systems as well as maintaining
"confidentiality, integrity and availability of computer systems.
Two Categories of Computer Crime
• 1). Criminal Activity that involves using a Computer to commit a crime
• 2). Criminal activity that has a computer as a target.
• Typical types of data requested for a digital forensics examination by the law enforcement
agencies include.
• 1) Investigation into electronic mail (E-Mail) usage, website history, cell phone usage, cellular
and Voice over Internet Protocol (VolP) phone usage, file activity history, file creation or
deletion, chat history, account login/logout records and more.
Q1: Discuss the Historical Background of Cyberforensics
Historical Background of Cyberforensics.
• Forensics means a "characteristic of evidence that satisfies its suitability for
admission as fact and it persuade based upon proof.
• "Forensics science" is the application of science to law and it is ultimately defined by
use in court.
5.3 Digital Forensics Science,
Digital forensics is the application of analyses techniques to the reliable and unbiased collection,
analysis interpretation and presentation of digital evidence. There is a number of slightly varying
definitions/The term computer forensics, however, is generally considered to be related to the use
of analytical and investigative techniques to identify, collect, examine and preserve
evidence/information which is magnetically stored or encoded
The objective of "Cyberforensics" is to provide digital evidence of a specific or general activity.
Following are two more definitions worth considering:
1. Computer forensics: It is the lawful and ethical seizure, acquisition, analysis, reporting
and safeguarding of data and metadata derived from digital devices which may contain
information that is notable and perhaps of evidentiary value to the trier of fact in
managerial, administrative, civil and criminals' investigations. In other words, it is the
collection of techniques and tools used to find evidence in a computer.
2. Digital forensics: It is the use of scientifically derived and proven methods toward the
preservation, collection, validation, identification, analysis, interpretation, documentation
Jy othi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 2