 Display a message to prompt an action which may set of the virus
 Delete files inside the system into which viruses enter
 Scramble data on a hard disk
 Cause erratic screen behavior
 Halt the system (PC)
 Just replicate themselves to propagate further harm
5. E-Mail bombing/Mail bombs: E-Mail bombing refers to sending a large number of E-Mails to the victim
to crash victim’s E-Mail account (in the case of an individual) or to make victim’s mail servers crash (in
the case of a company or an E-Mail service provider). Computer program can be written to instruct a computer
to do such tasks on a repeated basis. In recent times, terrorism has hit the Internet in the form of mail bombings.
By instructing a computer to repeatedly send E-Mail to a specified person’s E-Mail address, the cybercriminal
can overwhelm the recipient’s personal account and potentially shut down entire systems. This may or may
not be illegal, but it is certainly disruptive.
6. Salami Attack/Salami technique: These attacks are used for committing financial crimes. The idea here is to
make the alteration so insignificant that in a single case it would go completely unnoticed; For example a bank
employee inserts a program, into the bank’s servers, that deducts a small amount of money (say Rs.2/- or
a few cents in a month) from the account of every customer. No account holder will probably notice this
unauthorized debit, but the bank employee will make a sizable amount every month.
7. Logic Bomb: A Logic Bomb is a piece of often-malicious code that is intentionally inserted into software.
It is activated upon the host network only when certain conditions are met. Some viruses may be termed as
logic bombs because they lie dormant all through the year and become active only on a particular date.
8. Trojan Horse: A Trojan Horse, Trojan for short, is a term used to describe malware that appears, to the user,
to perform a desirable function but, in fact, facilitates unauthorized access to the user’s computer system.
9. Data Diddling: A data diddling (data cheating) attack involves altering raw data just before it is processed
by a computer and then changing it back after the processing is completed. Electricity Boards in India have
been victims to data diddling programs inserted when private parties computerize their systems.
10. Newsgroup Spam/Crimes emanating from Usenet newsgroup: This is one form of spamming. The word
“Spam” was usually taken to mean Excessive Multiple Posting (EMP). The advent of Google Groups, and its
large Usenet archive, has made Usenet more attractive to spammers than ever. Spamming of Usenet
newsgroups actually predates E-Mail Spam.
11. Industrial spying/Industrial espionage: Spying is not limited to governments. Corporations, like
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 20