governments, often spy on the enemy. The Internet and privately networked systems provide new and
better opportunities for espionage. “Spies” can get information about product finances, research and
development and marketing strategies, an activity known as “industrial spying.”
However, cyberspies rarely leave behind a trail. Industrial spying is not new; in fact it is as old as
industries themselves. The use of the Internet to achieve this is probably as old as the Internet itself.
Traditionally, this has been the reserved hunting field of a few hundreds of highly skilled hackers, contracted
by high-profile companies or certain governments via the means of registered organizations (it is said that
they get several hundreds of thousands of dollars, depending on the “assignment”). With the growing public
availability of Trojans and Spyware material, even low-skilled individuals are now inclinedto generate high
volume profit out of industrial spying. This is referred to as “Targeted Attacks” (which includes “Spear
Phishing”).
12. Computer network intrusions: “Crackers” who are often misnamed “Hackers can break into computer
systems from anywhere in the world and steal data, plant viruses, create backdoors, insert Trojan Horses or
change user names and passwords. Network intrusions are illegal, but detection and enforcement are
difficult. Current laws are limited and many intrusions go undetected. The cracker can bypass existing
password protection by creating a program to capture logon IDs and passwords. The practice of “strong
password” is therefore important.
13. Software piracy: This is a big challenge area indeed. Cybercrime investigation cell of India defines“software
piracy” as theft of software through the illegal copying of genuine programs or the counterfeiting and
distribution of products intended to pass for the original. There are many examples of software piracy:
1. end-user copying: friends loaning disks to each other, or organizations under-reporting the number
of software installations they have made, or organizations not tracking their software licenses;
2. hard disk loading with illicit means: hard disk vendors load pirated software;
3. counterfeiting: large-scale duplication and distribution of illegally copied software;
4. Illegal downloads from the Internet: by intrusion, by cracking serial numbers, etc. Beware that
those who buy pirated software have a lot to lose:
 getting untested software that may have been copied thousands of times over,
 the software, if pirated, may potentially contain hard-drive-infecting viruses,
 there is no technical support in the case of software failure, that is, lack of technical
product support available to properly licensed users,
 there is no warranty protection,
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 21