For a exam well the content of hard drives the scan we brought thought of as a analysis investigators
were told to shut down computer system when they are impounded for fear that digital time bomb
might cause data to be at rest.
Process of creating an exact duplicate of the original evidence media is often called imaging
computer forensics software packages make this possible by converting an entire hard drive into a
single searchable file is file is called an image.
Analysis, Interpretation and Attribution
Analysis, interpretation and attribution of evidence are the most difficult aspects
encountered by most forensics' analysts.
In the digital forensics arena, there are usually only a finite number of possible events sequences
that could have produced evidence; however, the actual number of possible sequences may be
almost unfathomably large.
In essence, almost any execution of an instruction by the computing environment containing or
generating the evidence may have an impact on the evidence. Basic ally, all digital evidence
must be analysed to determine the type of information that is stored upon it.
For this purpose, specialty tools are used that can display information in a format useful to
investigators. Such forensics tools include but are not limited to the following list.
1. Access Data's FTK
2. guidance Software's EnCase;
3. Dr. Golden Richard III's file carving tool Scalpel; "file carving" is the process of
recovering files from an investigative target, potentially without knowledge of the file
system structure;
4. Brian Carrier's Sleuth Kitl5l: The Sleuth Kit (TSK) is a library and collection of
Unix- and Windows based tools and utilities to allow for the forensics analysis of
computer systems.
Box 5.10: The file carving techniques are
File carving is a process of recovering the files from an investigative target, potential
without knowledge of the file system structure. the process is based on information
about the format of the file types of interest, as well as on assumption about how files
are typically laid out on block devices.
if the file system metadata is used at all, it is typically used only for establishing cluster
sizes and avoiding carving of undeleted file.
covering is an important technique for Digital forensic investigation and for simple data
recovery.
Why using a database of headers and footers for specific file types file covers can retri
files from a raw disc image regardless of the type of a file system on the disc image.
File carving ignore the file system and car of the images directly from the data blocks. in
cases of fragmented files, the carbon returns in perfect photo but this image might be
sufficient to identify the subject. (As in fig. 5.9)
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 20