maybe alternate day or twice a week.
 A recent survey conducted in one of the metropolitan cities in India reveals the following
facts:
1. Pirated software(s) such as OS, browser, office automation software(s) (e.g.,
Microsoft Office) are installed in all the computers.
2. Antivirus software is found to be not updated to the latest patch and/or antivirus
signature.
3. Several cybercafes had installed the software called “Deep Freeze” for protecting
the computers from prospective malware attacks. Deep Freeze can wipe out the
details of all activities carried out on the computer when one clicks on the
“restart” button. Such practices present challenges to the police or crime
investigators when they visit the cybercafes to pick up clues after the Interet
Service Provider (ISP) points to a particular IP address from where a threat mail
was probably sent or an online Phishing attack was carried out, to retrieve logged
files.
4. Annual maintenance contract (AMC) found to be not in a place for servicing the
computers; hence, hard disks for all the computers are not formatted unless the
computer is down. Not having the AMC is a risk from cybercrime perspective
because a cybercriminal can install a Malicious Code on a computer and conduct
criminal activities without any interruption.
5. Pornographic websites and other similar websites with indecent contents are not
blocked.
6. Cybercafe owners have very less awareness about IT Security and IT Governance.
7. Government/ISPs/State Police (cyber cell wing) do not seem to provide IT
Governance guidelines to cybercafe owners.
8. Cybercafe association or State Police (cyber cell wing) do not seem to conduct
periodic visits to cybercafes – one of the cybercafe owners whom we interviewed
expressed a view that the police will not visit a cybercafe unless criminal activity
is registered by filing an First Information Report (FIR). Cybercafe owners feel
that police either have a very little knowledge about the technical aspects involved
in cybercrimes and/or about conceptual understanding of IT security. There are
thousands of cybercafes across India.
In the event that a central agency takes up the responsibility for monitoring cybercafes,
an individual should take care while visiting and/or operating from cybercafe. Here are a few tips
for safety and security while using the computer in a cybercafe:
1. Always logout:
2. Stay with the computer:
3. Clear history and temporary files:
4. Be alert:
5. Avoid online financial transactions:
6. Change passwords:
7. Use Virtual keyboard:
8. Security warnings: