5.6 Digital Forensic Life cycle,
As per FBI's (Federal Bureau of Investigation) view, digital evidence is present in nearly every
crime scene. That is why law enforcement must know how to recognize, seize, transport and
store original digital evidence to preserve it for forensics examination. Figure
5.5 shows the process model for understanding a seizure and handling of forensics evidence legal
framework.
The cardinal rules to remember are that evidence
• 1. is admissible;
• 2. is authentic;
• 3. is complete;
• 4. is reliable;
• 5. is understandable and believable.
5.6.1. The Digital Forensic Process.
Digital forensic process needs to be understood in the legal context starting from
preparation of the evidence to testifying.
Digital forensic evidences consist of exhibits each consisting of a sequence of BITS presented
by witnesses in legal matter to help Jurors established the facts of the case and support or refute
legal theories of the case.
the exhibit should be introduced and presented and our challenge by properly qualified people
using a properly applied methodology that address is the legal theories and issue
Expert witness is very important and is associated with Digital forensic evidence. as per
the court procedure the exhibits are introduced as evidences by either side.
testimony is presented to established the process to identify collect preserve transport store analyse
interpret at tribute and or reconstruct the information contained in the exhibit and to establish to
the standard of proof required by the matter at hand that the evidence reflects the sequence of events
that is asserted to have produced it.
The assumption is that adequate facts can be established for the introduction of an evidence exhibit.
people involved in the chain of custody need to justify a number of aspects relating to the
evidence- the testimonial typically include the process of used for creating handling and
introducing the evidence the method used for collecting the exhibit as well as the manner in which
the exhibit is brought to court.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 14