messages you did not send:
7. Take an immediate action if your system is infected:
Box 2.9 | Technical Terms
Malware: It is malicious software, designed to damage a computer system without the owner’s
informed consent. Viruses and worms are the examples of malware.
Adware: It is advertising-supported software, which automatically plays, displays, or downloads
advertisements to a computer after the software is installed on it or while the application is being
used. Few Spywares are classifi ed as Adware.
Spam: It means unsolicited or undesired E-Mail messages
Spamdexing: It is also known as search Spam or search engine Spam. It involves a number of
methods, such as repeating unrelated phrases, to manipulate the relevancy or prominence of
resources indexed by a search engine in a manner inconsistent with the purpose of the indexing
system.
DDoS: Distributed denial-of-service attack (DDoS) occurs when multiple systems flood the
bandwidth or resources of a targeted system, usually one or more web servers. These systems are
compromised by attackers using a variety of methods.
2.7 Attack Vector
 An “attack vector” is a path, which an attacker can gain access to a computer or to a
network server to deliver a payload or malicious outcome.
 Attack vectors enable attackers to exploit system vulnerabilities, including the human
element.
 Attack vectors include viruses, E-Mail attachments, webpages, pop-up windows, instant
messages, chat rooms, and deception. All of these methods involve programming (or, in a
few cases, hardware), except deception, in which a human operator is fooled into
removing or weakening system defenses.
 To some extent, firewalls and antivirus software can block attack vectors.
 However, no protection method is totally attack-proof.
 A defense method that is effective today may not remain so for long because attackers are
constantly updating attack vectors, and seeking new ones, in their quest to gain
unauthorized access to computers and servers. Refer to Box 2.10.
 The most common malicious payloads are viruses (which can function as their own
attack vectors), Trojan Horses, worms, and Spyware.
 If an attack vector is thought of as a guided missile, its payload can be compared to the
warhead in the tip of the missile.
 In the technical terms, payload is the necessary data being carried within a packet or other
transmission unit – in this scenario (i.e., attack vector) payload means the malicious
activity that the attack performs.
 From the technical perspective, payload does not include the “overhead” data required to
get the packet to its destination. Payload may depend on the following point of view: