Cybercrime against individual
1. E-Mail Spoofing: A spoofed E-Mail is one that appears to originate from one source but actually has been
sent from another source. For example, let us say, Roopa has an E-Mail address roopa@asianlaws.org. Let us
say her boyfriend Suresh and she happen to have a show down. Then Suresh, having become her enemy, spoofs
her E-Mail and sends vulgar messages to all her acquaintances. Since the E-Mails appear to have originated
from Roopa, her friends could take offense and relationships could be spoiled for life.
2. Online Frauds: The most common types of online fraud are called phishing and spoofing. Phishing is the
process of collecting your personal information through e-mails or websites claiming to be legitimate. This
information can include usernames, passwords, credit card numbers, social security numbers, etc. Often times the
e-mails directs you to a website where you can update your personal information. Because these sites often look
“official,” they hope you’ll be tricked into disclosing valuable information that you normally would not reveal.
This often times, results in identity theft and financial loss.
Spyware and viruses are both malicious programs that are loaded onto your computer without your
knowledge. The purpose of these programs may be to capture or destroy information, to ruin computer performance
or to overload you with advertising. Viruses can spread by infecting computers and then replicating. Spyware
disguises itself as a legitimate application and embeds itself into your computer where it then monitors your activity
and collects information.
3. Phishing, Spear Phishing and its various other forms such as Vishing and Smishing:
Phishing is the process of collecting your personal information through e-mails or websites claiming to be
legitimate. This information can include usernames, passwords, credit card numbers, social security numbers, etc.
Often times the e-mails directs you to a website where you can update your personal information. Because these
sites often look “official,” they hope you’ll be tricked into disclosing valuable information that you normally
would not reveal. This often times, results in identity theft and financial loss.
Spear Phishing is a method of sending a Phishing message to a particular organization to gain organizational
information for more targeted social engineering. Here is how Spear Phishing scams work; Spear Phishing
describes any highly targeted Phishing attack. Spear phishers send E-Mail that appears genuine to all the
employees or members within a certain company, government agency, organization or group. The message might
look as if it has come from your employer, or from a colleague who might send an E-Mail message to everyone in
the company; it could include requests for usernames or passwords. While traditional Phishingscams are
designed to steal information from individuals, spear phishing scam works to gain access to acompany's entire
computer system.
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 14