level 1: This is mirroring and duplex into provide disc mirroring. level 1 provides double the
rate of read transaction for single discs, but provide the same bright transaction rate as single
disc.
level 2: this is error correcting coding however it is not a typical implementation. this level is
rarely used it stripes data at the bit level rather than at the block level.
This is bit interleaved parity level 3 provides byte level stripping with a dedicated parity disc.
It is really used probably because it cannot service simultaneous multiple requests.
level 4: this is dedicated parity drive. its use is common for implementation of RAID. Level 4
offers block level stripping with the parity disc if a data disc fails. The parity data is used to
create a replacement disc. there is a disadvantage to level 4 in that the parity dis can create
write bottlenecks.
Level 5 this is the block interleaved distributed parity. the idea year is to provide data stripping at
the bite level and also strike error correction information. level 5 results in excellent performance
and good fault tolerance. it most popular among RAID implementation methods.
level 6 this is independent data disc with the double parity. this level provides block level
striping with parity data distributed across all disks.
level 0+1: this is nothing but a mirror of stripes. it is not one of the original RAID levels. With
this level used, to RAID 0 stripes are created and one RAID 1 mirror is created over them. The use
of the level is typically seen for both replicating and sharing data among these.
Level 10 this is a stripe of mirrors however it is not considered to be an original red level.
with this level multiple RAID 1 Mirrors are created, and RAID 0 stripe is created over these.
Level 7: this is a Trademark of STC (storage Computer Corporation) it at cashing to level 3
or 4.
RAID S: This is also known as parity rate it is an MNC corporation's priority stripped
parity rate system used in its Symmetrix storage system.
Reporting:
Once the analysis is complete, a report is generated. The report may be in a written form or an
oral testimony or it may be a combination of the two. Finally, evidence, analysis,
interpretation and attribution
The following are the broad-level elements of the report:
1. Identity of the reporting agency;
2. case identifier or submission number;
3. case investigator;
4. identity of the submitter;
5. date of receipt;
6. date of report;
7. descriptive list of items submitted for examination, including serial number, make and
model;
8. identity and signature of the examiner;
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 23