In exceptional circumstance, where a person finds it necessary to access original data held on a
computer or storage media that person must be competent do so and be able to give evidence
explaining the relevance and the implications of his/her actions.
Principle 3:
An Audit trail or other record of all the processes applied to computer waste electronic evidence
should be created and preserved. An independent third party should be able to examine those process
and achieve the same result.
Principle 4:
The person in charge of the investigation (the case officer) has overall responsibility for ensuring that
the law and these principles are adhered to.
13.Explain the chain Custody Concepts in Cyber Forensics
5.7 Chain of Custody Concepts,
A chain of custody is the process of validating how many kinds of evidences have been gathered,
tracked and protected on the way to a court of law
It is essential to get in the habit of protecting all evidences equally so that they will hold up in
court. Forensic nvestigation professionals know that if you do not have a chain of custody, the
evidence is worthless. They learn to deal with everything as if it would go to litigation.
Purpose of the chain of custody is that the proponent of a piece of evidence must demonstrate that
it is what it purports to be.
In other words, there is a reliable information to suggest that the party offering the evidence
can demonstrate the piece of evidence is actually, in fact, what the party claims it to be and
can further demonstrate its origin and the handling of the evidence because it was acquired.
The Chain of Custody is a chronological written record of those individuals who have had
custody of the evidence from, its initial acquisition until its final disposition.
A chain of custody begins when an item of relevant evidence is collected, and the chain is
maintained until the evidence is disposed off (Figs. 5.10 and 5.11). The chain of custody
assumes continuous accountability. This accountability is important because, if not properly
maintained, an item (of evidence) may be inadmissible
5.8 Network forensics.
• Open networks can be source of many network-based cyberattack
• Wireless Forensics
• Wireless Forensics is a discipline included within the computer forensics science, and
specifically, within the network forensics field.
• The goal of wireless forensics is to provide the methodology and) tools required to collect
network traffic that can be presented as valid digital evidence a court of law.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 27