 Shoulder surfing: People who loiter around in the public facilities such as in the
cybercafes, near ATMs and telephone booths can keep an eye to grab the personal
details.
 False or disguised ATM (skimming"): Just as it is possible to imitate a bank
ATM, it is also possible to install miniaturized equipment on a valid ATM.
 This equipment (a copier) captures the card information, using which, duplicate card
can be made and personal identification number (PIN) can be obtained by stealing
the camera films.
 Dishonest or mistreated employees: An employee or partner with access to the
personal files, salary information, insurance files or bank information can gather
all sorts of confidential information and can use it to provide sufficient damage.
 Telemarketing and fake telephone calls: This is an effective method for collecting
information from unsuspecting people. The caller who makes a "cold call"
(supposedly from a bank) asks the victim to verify account information immediately
on the phone, often without m explanation or verification. This attack is known as
Vishing.
Computer-based technique
These techniques are attempts made by the attacker to exploit the vulnerabilities
within existing processes and/or systems.
 Backup theft: In addition to stealing equipment from private buildings,
attackers also strike public facilities such as transport areas, hotels and
recreation centres. They carefully analyse stolen equipment or backups to
recover the data.
• Hacking unauthorized access to systems and database theft: Besides stealing
the equipment and/or hardware criminals attempt to compromise
information systems with various tools, techniques and methods to gain
unauthorized access to download the required information.
• Phishing: It is an attack that attempts to steal money or identity by getting victim to
reveal personal information.
• Pharming: It is a scamming practice in which malicious code is installed on a
personal computer or server misdirecting users to fraudulent websites without their
knowledge or consent. User will input information unknowingly.
4.3.4 Identity Theft: Countermeasures
How to prevent being a victim of Identity theft?
• Identity Theft is growing day-by-day
• We need to keep the credit card and PIN safely
• Always Vigilant and take optimum care towards protecting the self-identity
Jy othi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 26