Network environment these extents to all network devices potentially all over the world. evidence
of an activity that cause Digital forensic evidences to come into being might be continuous
contained in a time stamp associated with the different program in a different computer on the
other side of the word that was offset from its usual pattern of behaviour by a few many
microseconds.
If the evidence cannot be identified as relevant evidence it may be never be collected or process that
all and may not even continue to exit in digital form by the time it is discovered to have relevance
Collecting and Recording Digital Evidence.
 Digital evidence can be collected from many sources.
 The sources are computers, cell phones, digital cameras hard drives, CD-ROM, USB
memory devices and so on.
 Non-obvious sources include settings of digital thermometers, black boxes inside
automobiles, RFID tags and webpages (which must be preserved as they are subject to
change).
 Special care must be taken when handling computer evidence: most digital
 information is easily changed, and once changed it is usually impossible to detect that a
change has taken place unless other measures have been taken.
 For this reason, it is common practice to calculate a cryptographic hash of an evidence
file and to record that hash elsewhere, usually in an investigator's notebook, so that one can
establish at a later point in time that the evidence has not been modified as the hash was
calculated.
 Figures 5 .6 and 5.7 show the media that typically holds digital evidence.
Collecting volatile data requires special technical skills
If the machine is still active any intelligence that can be gained by examining the applications
currently open is recorded.
if the machine is suspected of being used for illegal communication such as terrorist traffic not
all of this information may be stored on the hard drive.
If information told solely in Random Access Memory and not recovered before powering down
it may be lost.
This results in the need to collect volatile data from the computer at the onset of the
response.
Memory falls under the family of solid-state non-time memory it is used in some drive USB sticks
cell phone game console secure digital card and multimedia cards.
This technology differs from the normal hard disc by not containing any moving parts in every device
that interact with our daily life.
The benefit of Embedded memory continues to increase life expectancy. figure 5.8 shows the
various types of embedded memories inside a computer ROM, PROM, EPROM, EEPROM.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 17