 use of fast meta refresh;
 redirection;
 IP Cloaking;
 use of colored text on the same color background;
 tiny text usage;
 duplication of pages with different URLs;
 hidden links;
 use of different pages that bridge to the same URL (gateway pages).
5. Cyber defamation: It is a cognizable (Software) offense. “Whoever, by words either spoken or intended to be
read, or by signs or by visible representations, makes or publishes any imputation concerning any person intending
to harm, or knowing or having reason to believe that such imputation will harm, the reputation ofsuch person,
is said, except in the cases hereinafter expected, to defame that person.”
Cyber defamation happens when the above takes place in an electronic form. In other words, cyber
defamation occurs when defamation takes place with the help of computers and/or the Internet. For example,
someone publishes defamatory matter about someone on a website or sends an E-Mail containing defamatory
information to all friends of that person.
6. Cyberstalking and harassment: The dictionary meaning of “stalking” is an “act or process of following prey
stealthily – trying to approach somebody or something.” Cyberstalking has been defined as the use of information
and communications technology, particularly the Internet, by an individual or group of individualsto harass
another individual, group of individuals, or organization. The behavior includes false accusations, monitoring,
transmission of threats, ID theft, damage to data or equipment, solicitation of minors for sexual purposes, and
gathering information for harassment purposes.
As the internet has become an integral part of our personal & professional lives, cyberstalkers take advantage of
ease of communication & an increased access to personal information available with a few mouse clicks or
keystrokes. They are 2 types of stalkers: Online Stalkers: aim to start the interaction with the victim directly
with the help of the internet. Offline Stalkers: the stalker may begin the attack using traditional methods such
as following the victim, watching the daily routine of the victim.
7. Computer Sabotage: The use of the Internet to stop the normal functioning of a computer system through the
introduction of worms, viruses or logic bombs, is referred to as computer sabotage. It can be used to gain economic
advantage over a competitor, to promote the illegal activities of terrorists or to steal data or programs for extortion
purposes. Logic bombs are event-dependent programs created to do something only when a certain event (known
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 16