Caller: Bye and have a nice day.
2.3.1 Classification of Social Engineering
Human-Based Social Engineering
 Human-based social engineering refers to person-to-person interaction to get the
required/desired information.
 An example is calling the help desk and trying to find out a password.
1. Impersonating an employee or valid user:
 “Impersonation” is perhaps the greatest technique used by social engineers to deceive
people.
 Social engineers “take advantage” of the fact that most people are basically helpful, so it
seems harmless to tell someone who appears to be lost where the computer room is located,
or to let someone into the building who “forgot” his/her badge, etc., or pretending to be an employee or
valid user on the system.
2. Posing as an important user:
 The attacker pretends to be an important user – for example, a Chief Executive Officer
(CEO) or high-level manager who needs immediate assistance to gain access to a system.
 The attacker uses intimidation so that a lower-level employee such as a help-desk worker
will help him/her in gaining access to the system. Most of the low-level employees will
not ask any question to someone who appears to be in a position of authority.
3. Using a third person:
 An attacker pretends to have permission from an authorized source to use a system. This
trick is useful when the supposed authorized personnel is on vacation or cannot be
contacted for verification.
4. Calling technical support:
 Calling the technical support for assistance is a classic social engineering example.
 Help-desk and technical support personnel are trained to help users, which makes them
good prey for social engineering attacks.
5. Shoulder surfing:
 It is a technique of gathering information such as usernames and passwords by watching
over a person’s shoulder while he/she logs into the system, thereby helping an attacker to
gain access to the system.
6. Dumpster diving:
 It involves looking in the trash for information written on pieces of paper or
computer printouts.
 This is a typical North American term; it is used to describe the practice of rummaging
through commercial or residential trash to find useful free items that have been discarded.
 It is also called dumpstering, binning, trashing, garbing or garbage gleaning.
 “Scavenging” is another term to describe these habits.
 In the UK, the practice is referred to as “ binning” or “skipping” and the person doing it
is a “binner” or a “skipper.”