o application servers with well-known exploits;
o misconfigured systems and systems with default configurations.
 To help the reader understand the network attack scenario, Fig. 2.2 illustrates a small
network highlighting specific occurrences of several vulnerabilities described above.
Box 2.2 | What Color is Your Hat in the Security World?
A black hat is also called a “cracker” or “dark side hacker.” Such a person is a malicious or
criminal hacker. Typically, the term “cracker” is used within the security industry. However,
the general public uses the term hacker to refer to the same thing. In computer terminology, the
meaning of “hacker” can be much broader. The name comes from the opposite of “white hat
hackers.”
A white hat hacker is considered an ethical hacker. In the realm of IT, a “white hat hacker” is
a person who is ethically opposed to the abuse of computer systems. It is said that the term is
derived from American western movies, where the protagonist typically wore a white cowboy
hat and the antagonist typically wore a black one. As a simplified explanation, a “white hat”
generally focuses on securing IT systems, whereas a “black hat” (the opposite) would like to
break into them, so this sounds like an age-old game of a thief and a police.
A brown hat hacker is one who thinks before acting or committing a malice or non-malice
deed. A grey hat commonly refers to a hacker who releases information about any exploits or
security holes he/she finds openly to the public. He/she does so without concern for how the
information is used in the end (whether for patching or exploiting).
2.1.1 Categories of Cybercrime
Cybercrime can be categorized based on the following:
1. The target of the crime and
2. whether the crime occurs as a single event or as a series of events.
Cybercrime can be targeted against individuals (persons), assets (property) and/or
organizations (government, business and social).
1. Crimes targeted at individuals: The goal is to exploit human weakness such as greed
and naivety. These crimes include financial frauds, sale of non-existent or stolen items,
child pornography (explained in Section 1.5.13, Chapter 1), copyright violation,
harassment, etc. with the development in the IT and the Internet; thus, criminals have a
new tool that allows them to expand the pool of potential victims. However, this also
makes difficult to trace and apprehend the criminals.
2. Crimes targeted at property: This includes stealing mobile devices such as cell phone,
laptops, personal digital assistant (PDAs), and removable medias (CDs and pen drives);
transmitting harmful programs that can disrupt functions of the systems and/or can wipe
out data from hard disk, and can create the malfunctioning of the attached devices in the
system such as modem, CD drive, etc.