5. name of user’s friend/relative/pet;
6. user’s birthplace or date of birth, or a relative’s or a friend’s;
7. user’s vehicle number, office number, residence number or mobile number;
8. name of a celebrity who is considered to be an idol (e.g., actors, actress, spiritual gurus)
by the user;
 An attacker can also create a script file (i.e., automated program) which will be executed
to try each password in a list.
 This is still considered manual cracking, is time-consuming and not usually effective.
 Passwords are stored in a database and password verification process is established into
the system when a user attempts to login or access a restricted resource.
 To ensure confidentiality of passwords, the password verification data is usually
not stored in a clear text format.
 For example, one-way function (which may be either an encryption function or
a cryptographic hash) is applied to the password, possibly in combination with other data,
and the resulting value is stored.
 When a user attempts to login to the system by entering the password, the same function is
applied to the entered value and the result is compared with the stored value. If they match,
user gains the access; this process is called authentication.
The most commonly used hash functions can be computed rapidly and the attacker can test
these hashes with the help of passwords cracking tools (see Table 4.3) to get the plain text
password.
Password cracking attacks can be classified under three categories as follows:
1. Online attacks;
2. offline attacks;
3. non-electronic attacks (e.g., social engineering, shoulder surfing and dumpster diving).
Online Attacks
 An attacker can create a script file that will be executed to try each password in a list and
when matches, an attacker can gain the access to the system.
 The most popular online attack is man-in-the middle (MITM) attack, also termed as
“bucket- brigade attack” or sometimes “Janus attack.”
 It is a form of active stealing in which the attacker establishes a connection between a
Jyothi R, A ssistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) Page 5