CYBERCRIME: THE LEGAL PERSPECTIVES
 Cybercrime poses a biggest challenge.
 Computer Crime: As per “Criminal Justice Resource Manual (1979)”, computer-related crime was defined
in the broader meaning as: “any illegal act for which knowledge of computer technology is essential for a
successful prosecution”.
 International legal aspects of computer crimes were studied in 1983.
 In that study, computer crime was consequently defined as: “encompasses any illegal act for which
knowledge of computer technology is essential for its commit”.
 Cybercrime, in a way, is the outcome of “globalization.” However, globalization does not mean
globalized welfare at all.
 Globalized information systems accommodate an increasing number of transnational offenses.
 The network context of cybercrime makes it one of the most globalized offenses of the present and the
most modernized threats of the future.
 This problem can be resolved in two ways.
a) One is to divide information systems into segments bordered by state boundaries (cross-border
flow of information).
b) The other is to incorporate the legal system into an integrated entity obliterating these state
boundaries.
 Apparently, the first way is unrealistic. Although all ancient empires including Rome, Greece and Mongolia
became historical remnants, and giant empires are not prevalent in current world, the partitionof
information systems cannot be an imagined practice.
 In a globally connected world, information systems become the unique empire without tangible territory.
CYBERCRIMES: AN INDIAN PERSPECTIVE
India has the fourth highest number of Internet users in the world. According to the statistics posted on the
site (http://www.iamai.in/), there are 45 million Internet users in India, 37% of all Internet accesses happen from
cybercafés and 57% of Indian Internet users are between 18 and 35 years. The population of educatedyouth
is high in India. It is reported that compared to the year 2006, cybercrime under the Information Technology (IT)
Act recorded a whopping 50% increase in the year 2007. A point to note is that the majority of offenders were
under 30 years. The maximum cybercrime cases, about 46%, were related to incidents of
cyberpornography, followed by hacking. In over 60% of these cases, offenders were between 18 and 30 years,
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 23