 digital evidence is much easier to change or manipulate
 prefers digital copies can be made without harming original.
At the same time the integrity of digital evidence can be proven.
There are many forms of Cybercrimes sexual harassment cases-memos, letters, emails, obscene
chats or embezzlement cases-spreadsheets, memos, letters, emails, online banking, information;
corporate espionage by of memos, letters, emails and chats; and fraud through memos, letters,
spreadsheet and email.
In case of computer crime or cybercrime computer forensic helps
computer forensic experts know the technique to retrieve the data from files listed in standard
directory search hidden files deleted files deleted Email and password login IDS encrypted files
hidden partitions etc., Typically the evidence is to decide on computer system used user created files
use a protected files computer created files and on computer networks computer system have the
following
1. Logical file system that consists of
 File system: It includes files, volumes, directories and folders, file allocation tables (FAT)
as in the folder version of Windows Operating System, clusters, partitions, sectors.
 Random access memory.
 Physical storage media: It has magnetic force microscopy that can be used to
recover data from overwritten area.
o Slack space: It is a space allocated to the file but is not actually used due to
internal fragmentation and
o unallocated space.
2. User created files: It consists of address books, audio/video files, calendars, database files,
spread- 2. sheets, E-Mails, Internet bookmarks, documents and text files.
3. Computer created files: It consists of backups, cookies, configuration files, history files, log
files, Swap files, system files, temporary files, etc.
4. Computer networks: It consists of the Application Layer, the Transportation Layer, the
Network Layer, the Data Link Layer. Readers who are not savvy with these terms
Box 5.5: The Father of Forensics Science the Sherlock Holmes of France:
Dr. Edmard Locard 1877-1966, Pioneer in Forensic Science and was popularly known
as Sherlock Holmes of France.
He Formulated the basic principle of forensics science; " Every contact leaves a trace".
 known as Locard's exchange principle.
Wherever he steps, wherever he touches, whatever he leaves, even without consciousness.
Will serve as a silent witness against him. Not only his fingerprints or his footprints, but his
hair, the fibres from his clothes, the glass he breaks, the tool mark he leaves, the paint he
scratches, the blood or semen he deposits or collects. All of these and more bear mute witness
against him. This is evidence that does not forget. It is not confused by the excitement of the
moment. It is not absent because human witnesses are. It is factual evidence. Physical
evidence cannot be wrong, it cannot perjure itself, it cannot be wholly absent. Only human
failure to find it, study and understand it. can diminish its value. In
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 9