Q4: Discuss the need for concept of Computer Forensics
5.4 Need for Computer Forensics,
⯈ The convergence of information and communication technology (ICT) advances and the
pervasive use of computer worldwide together have brought many advantages to mankind.
⯈ At the same time, this tremendously high technical capacity of modern
computer/computing devices provides avenues for misuse as well as opportunities
for committing crime.
⯈ This leads to new risks for computer users and also increased opportunities for social harm.
⯈ The users, businesses and organizations worldwide have to live with a constant threat from
hackers who use a variety of techniques and tools to break into the
computer to steal information, change data and cause havoc.
⯈ The widespread use of computer forensics is the result of two factors:
1. The increasing dependence of law enforcement on digital evidence.
2. Ubiquity of computers that followed from the microcomputer revolution.
⯈ The media on which clues related to cybercrime reside may vary from case to case.
⯈ There are many challenges for the forensics investigator because storage devices are
getting miniaturized due to advances in electronic technology; for example, external
storage devices such as mini hard disks (pen drives) are available in amazing shapes.
⯈ Looking for digital forensics evidence (DFE) is like looking for a needle in the
haystack.
⯈ Here is a way to illustrate why there is always the need for forensics software on suspect
media - the capacity of a typical regular hard disk is 500 GB (gigabytes).
⯈ In an A4 size page, there are approximately 4,160 bytes (52 lines x 80 Characters =
4160 bytes assuming 1 byte per character). This is equivalent to 4 KB (kilobytes). An A4
size of paper sheet has thickness of 0.004 inches.
⯈ Data of 4 MB (megabyte; 1,000 times of 4 KB) when printed on A4 size of paper would be
4 inches thick.
⯈ Data of 4 GB if printed on A4 sheet would be 4,000 inches, that is, 1,000 times of be
virtually impossible to "retrieve" relevant forensics data from this heap!! There comes the
help from forensics MB.
⯈ This would turn out to be 4 inches thick. The printout of 500 GB would be
500,000 inches!
⯈ It would be virtually impossible to "retrieve" relevant forensics data from this heap!!
There comes the help from forensics software-it helps sieve relevant data from the irrelevant mass
(vital few from trivial many as the proverb goes).
Fungibility:
⯈ "Fungibility" means the extent to which the components of an operation or product can
be inter- changed with similar components without decreasing the value of the operation
or product.
⯈ For a person to be considered as "identifiable person," he/she must always have the
physical custody of a piece of evidence.
⯈ Practically speaking, this means that a police officer or detective will take charge of a
piece of evidence, document its collection and hand it over to an evidence clerk for
storage in a secure place.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 7