9. brief description of steps taken during examination, such as string searches, graphics image
searches
and recovering erased files;
10. results/ conclusions.
Testifying
This face in wall of presentation and cross examination of expert witness.
Depending on the country and legal Framework in which a cyber cream cases register that is
standards me apply with regard the issue of expert witnesses.
Digital forensic evidence is normally introduced by expert witness set in the case where non
expert can bring the clarity to non-scientific issues by taking what they observed or did.
For example, and non-expert who works at a company may introduce the data here she extracted
from a company data base and discuss how the database works and how it normally use from a
non-technical standpoint.
To the extent that the witness is the custodian of a system or a content he or she can justify to
matters related to that custodial Rose as well.
Only expert witness can address issues based on scientific, technical or other specialized
knowledge.
A witness qualified as an expert by knowledge, skill, experience or education.
a). If a Testimony is based on sufficient facts or data.
b). Testimony is the product of reliable principles and methods
c). the witness as applied the principles and methods reliable
Table 5.5. Digital Forensic- Phase wise outputs.
Evidence  Monitoring authorisation and management plan
preparation and support, and obtained authorisation to do the authorisation
identification investigation. warrant
 ensuring that operations and Infrastructures are notification
able to support an investigation. confirmation
 providing a mechanism for the incident to be
detected and conformer.
 providing a mechanism for the incident to be
detected and conformer
 creating an awareness so that the investigation is
needed ( I didn't if I the need for an
investigation)
 planning for getting the information needed
from both inside and outside the investigation
organization.
 identifying the strategy policy and previous
investigation
 informing the subject of an investigation or
other consent party that the investigation is
taking place
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 24