Using digital forensics techniques, one can:
1. Corroborate and clarify evidence otherwise discovered.
2. Generate investigative leads for follow-up and verification in óther ways.
3. Provide help to verify an intrusion hypothesis.
4. Eliminate incorrect assumptions.
Box 5.1: COFEE Time:
 Computer Online Forensics Evidence Extractor (COFEE) is a USB thumb drive-
gadget onto which Microsoft have loaded 150+ commands that can, among other things,
decrypt passwords, display internet activity and uncover all a data stored on the
computer.
 The tool was developed by Anthony Fung, a former Hong Kong police office and now
an employee who works for Microsoft.
 Microsoft collected the problem faced by law enforcement agencies around the world to
develop solution to the problem.
 Law enforcement professional need to capture critical evidence on a computer at the
scene of an investigation before the evidence is powered down and removed for forensic
analysis.
 COFEE helps the Law Enforcement Agencies even when there are no on-the scene
computer forensic capabilities.
 It enables them to collect live volatile evidence more easily.
 On-the-scene, agents can run more than 150 commands on a live computer system.
COFEE tool also provides reports in simple format that are easy for later interpretation.
These reports can be used by experts and can also be used as supportive evidence for
subsequent investigation and prosecution.
 The COFEE fool and its underlying framework can be tailored to effectively meet the
needs of a particular investigation, that is, it can be fully customized. On the lighter side,
one wonders if there will also be Total Evidence Analyzer (TEA) soon.
Q2: Is there a difference between computer security and computer forensics? Explain
BOX 5.2: Difference between Forensics Policy and Security Policy
Forensics Policy Security Policy
forensics policy is a statement that clearly states It is a statement that clearly specifies the allowed
which assets are forensically important. those and disallowed elements with regard to security.
It also specifies data
needed for investigation into breach of those
assets.
Forensics policy partitions space of all possible It partitions the system states into "secure" and
breaches or criminal activity into sets events "unauthorized security" policy that helps
that to are forensically implement mechanisms enforce
noteworthy and those that are not. system security policy.
It allows for mechanisms or design decision to
enforce policy.
Here is another way to understand the
difference between security policy and
forensics policy - violation of security policy
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 4