US, India and China are  Targeted Countries.
3. Phishing attacks are monitored on a daily basis and displayed on
www.phishtank.com
4. According to May 2009 Phishing Monthly Report compiled by Symantec Security
Response Anti -Fraud Team
 Total 3,650 non-English Phishing websites were recorded in the month of May 2009.
 Phishing URLs are categorized based on the top-level domains (TLDs). The most
used TLD in Phishing websites during the month of May 2009 were ".com, ".net and
".org" comprising 50%, 9% and 5%, respectively.
Phishing Activity Trends Report of Q4-2009 published by Anti-Phishing Working
Group (APWG,) states the Phishing attack trends and statistics for the quarter. It is
important to note that:
Financial organizations, payment services and auction websites are ranked as the
most targeted industry.
Port 80 [HTTP] is found to be the most popular port in use followed by Port 443 [S-
HTTP] and Port 8080 (WEB SERVER) among all the phishing attacks.
APWG (Anti-Phishing Working Group)
1. Explain the functions of Anti-phishing Working Group (04M)
• www. antiphishing.org, is an international consortium, founded in 2003 by
David Jevans
• to bring security products and services companies, law enforcement agencies,
government agencies, trade association, regional international treaty
organizations and communications companies together, who are affected by
Phishing attacks.
• APWG has more than 3,200+ members from more than 1,700 organizations
and agencies across the globe.
• To name a few, member organizations are leading security companies such as
BitDefender, Symantec, McAfee, VeriSign and IronKey.
• ING Group, VISA, Mastercard and the American Bankers Association are the
members from financial industry.
• APWG is focused on eliminating identity theft that results from the growing
attacks/scams of Phishing and E-Mail Spoofing.
• APWG provides a platform to discuss Phishing issues, define the scope
Phishing problem in terms of costs and share information about best
practices to these attacks/scams.
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 2