CYBERSECURITY FOR
SMALL BUSINESS
HOW TO CONNECT
Require employees and vendors to use secure
REMOTELY
connections when connecting remotely to your
TO THE NETWORK network. They should:
Use a router with WPA2 or WPA3 encryption when connecting from their homes.
Encryption protects information sent over a network so that outsiders can’t read it.
WPA2 and WPA3 are the only encryption standards that will protect information sent
over a wireless network.
Only use public Wi-Fi when also using a virtual private network (VPN) to encrypt
traffic between their computers and the internet. Public Wi-Fi does not provide a
secure internet connection on its own. Your employees can get a personal VPN
account from a VPN service provider, or you may want to hire a vendor to create an
enterprise VPN for all employees to use.
MAINTAIN SECURITY
WHAT TO DO TO
Train your staff: Include information on secure remote access in regular trainings and new
staff orientations.
Have policies covering basic cybersecurity, give copies to your employees,
and explain the importance of following them.
Before letting any device — whether at an employee’s home or on a vendor’s
network — connect to your network, make sure it meets your network’s
security requirements.
Tell your staff about the risks of public Wi-Fi.
Give your staff tools that will help maintain security:
• Require employees to use • Require multi-factor authentication to access areas of your
unique, complex network network that have sensitive information. This requires additional
passwords and avoid steps beyond logging in with a password — like a temporary
unattended, open workstations. code on a smartphone or a key that’s inserted into a computer.
• Consider creating a VPN • If you offer Wi-Fi on your • Include provisions for
for employees to use when business premises for guests security in your vendor
connecting remotely to the and customers, make sure it’s contracts, especially if the
business network. separate from and not connected vendor will be connecting
to your business network. remotely to your network.
LEARN MORE AT:
FTC.gov/SmallBusiness