ISSN 2348-1196 (print)
International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology Research ISSN 2348-120X (online)
Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp: (373-377), Month: April-June 2014, Available at: www.researchpublish.com
power/lasers, radio or microwave transmissions or near-field using induction. Both methods utilize electromagnetism and
magnetic fields
Wireless Medical Technologies
New technologies such as mobile body area networks (MBAN) the capability to monitor blood pressure, heart rate,
oxygen level and body temperature, all with wireless technologies. The MBAN works by sending low powered wireless
signals to receivers that feed into nursing stations or monitoring sites. This technology helps with the intentional and
unintentional risk of infection or disconnection that arise from wired connections.
Computer interface devices
Answering the call of customers frustrated with cord clutter, many[who?] manufacturers of computer peripherals turned
to wireless technology to satisfy their consumer base [citation needed]. Originally these units used bulky, highly limited
transceivers to mediate between a computer and a keyboard and mouse; however, more recent generations have used
small, high-quality devices, some even incorporating Bluetooth. These systems have become so ubiquitous that some
users have begun complaining about a lack of wired peripherals. [who?] Wireless devices tend to have a slightly slower
response time than their wired counterparts; however, the gap is decreasing. [citation needed]
Computer interface devices such as a keyboard or mouse are powered by a battery and send signals to a receiver through a
USB port by way of a radio frequency (RF) receiver. The RF design makes it possible for signals to be transmitted
wirelessly and expands the range of effective use, usually up to 10 feet. Distance, physical obstacles, competing signals,
and even human bodies can all degrade the signal quality. Concerns about the security of wireless keyboards arose at the
end of 2007, when it was revealed that Microsoft's implementation of encryption in some of its 27 MHz models was
highly insecure.
V. NETWORK SECURITY
What is network security? How does it protect you? How does network security work? What are the business benefits of
network security? You may think you know the answers to basic questions like, What is network security? Still, it's a
good idea to ask them of your trusted IT partner. Why? Because small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) often lack
the IT resources of large companies. That means your network security may not be sufficient to protect your business
from today's sophisticated Internet threats.
What Is Network Security?
In answering the question What is network security? your IT partner should explain that network security refers to any
activities designed to protect your network. Specifically, these activities protect the usability, reliability, integrity, and
safety of your network and data. Effective network security targets a variety of threats and stops them from entering or
spreading on your network. What Is Network Security and How Does It Protect Your network? Many network security
threats today are spread over the Internet. The most common include:
1. Viruses, worms, and Trojan horses
2. Spyware and adware
3. Zero-day attacks, also called zero-hour attacks
4. Hacker attacks
5. Denial of service attacks
6. Data interception and theft
7. Identity theft
You need multiple layers of security. If one fails, others still stand. Network security is accomplished through hardware
and software. The software must be constantly updated and managed to protect you from emerging threats. A network
security system usually consists of many components. Ideally, all components work together, which minimizes
maintenance and improves security.
Page | 37 6
Research Publish Journals