Dogo Rangsang Research Journal UGC Care Group I Journal
ISSN : 2347-7180 Vol-09 Issue-03 September-December 2019
can damage the photo mask. It operates in the Fresnel diffraction pattern (used to calculate the diffraction
pattern created by waves passing through an aperture or around an object) where resolution is proportional
to is the wavelength of light exposed and g is the gap between the mask and the wafer, since g
is less here in comparison to contact printing it leads to poor resolution.
Advantages
 Mask are less defect prone than in pure (hard) contact.
Disadvantages
 It is hard to align and will lose some resolution of images due to the small gap between the mask and
the wafer resulting in diffraction at feature edges.
3. Projection Printing: In projection printing the distance between the mask and the wafer isn’t constrained
because the pattern on the photo mask is projected directly on the resist coated wafer and there is no chance
of the mask getting damaged as the mask and the wafer are placed far away from each other. It operates in
the Fraunhofer diffraction pattern (used to model the diffraction of waves when the diffraction pattern is
viewed at a long distance from the bending object). In order to obtain an image of high resolution, only a
small amount of pattern is projected and for a defect free lens system Rayleigh limit formula is applied
0.6 λ NA where λ is the wavelength used and NA is the numerical aperture of the lens system used.
Advantages
 Provides high resolution of images.
 There is no damage to mask.
Disadvantages
 Complex equipment requires high maintenance
 Provides low throughput
 Requires an environmental chamber for controlling Temperature,
humidity and reducing noise
There are two types of optical Lithography: DUV (Deep Ultra Violet Light) and EUV (Extreme Ultra Violet
Light) which are discussed in the following subsections.
Deep Ultraviolet Lithography
Deep Ultraviolet Lithography reduces minimum feature size of the integrated circuits by 50nm. 200-300nm
replaces wavelengths of 250-350nm. We use excimer light sources (used in production of microelectronic
devices) to generate DUV light [4]. Currently 248nm (KrF) and 193nm (ArF) excimer lasers [6] are used for
development and volume manufacturing of ICs. It is also used for commercial purposes where xenon mercury
lamps with low intensity are used [7].
Page | 528 Copyright @ 2019 Authors