Dogo Rangsang Research Journal UGC Care Group I Journal
ISSN : 2347-7180 Vol-09 Issue-03 September-December 2019
5. LITHOGRAPHY METHODOLOGIES
Electron Beam Lithography
Electron Beam Lithography was discovered around 1960s in order to scan small objects with electrons and
easily modify the patterns. The process of E-Beam Lithography involves bending of electrons using force as
compared to conventional lithographic approach of bending light using mirrors [8]. This method is mask less
where the substrate is directly written upon like a pen.
There are two types of forces involved
 Electromagnetic
 Electrostatic
Both of these forces are used to manufacture lenses that include electromagnetic and electrostatic lenses, which
are used to focus light. In the following subsections the procedure used to create pattern on the substrate using
E-Beam Lithography is discussed.
Procedure
The following are the steps involved in creation of integrated circuits using E-Beam Lithography
Step 1: E-Beam with a diameter of 0.01µ to 0.5µ is focused and scanned over the entire semiconductor
substrate with a computer depending on the pattern that has to be created on the substrate. Since we use
computer here, so it requires blanking (it controls the electron beam with the help of a computer and turns off
and on accordingly) and deflection.
Step 2: The E-Beam is operated in two modes - one where the E-Beam Resist is eradiated changing its
properties and other when off, the resist is not eradiated. The movement of the E- Beam is over a small region,
which is referred as scanned field.
Step 3: Usually the size of the field is 1cm by 1cm whereas the size of the substrate is bigger in comparison.
Once the E-Beam scans the substrate once, then the substrate gets moved, as a result the substrate is mounted
over a movable X-Y table.
Step 4: Hence during the second time when the E-Beam is scanned over the unexposed regions of the substrate,
patterns are created easily on it.
Writing Strategies
Following are the writing strategies for the creation of integrated circuits using E-Beam Lithography
1. Raster Scan: Scans the whole substrate pixel element by pixel element. It is a slow process and
blanking is used when to write the pattern or not on the substrate accordingly. Spot size (smallest
size that can be made on electrons and electron’s numerical aperture. It defines the size ranging
between 0.1 to 5 created over numerical aperture) plays an important role in writing since it gives
direct tradeoff between throughput and resolution. The small spot size will provide better resolution
whereas large spot size will provide higher throughput.
2. Vector Scan: Used only on the selected areas on the substrate where writing is to be performed and
provides thinly dispersed and not dense patterns on the substrate.
Page | 524 Copyright @ 2019 Authors