Dogo Rangsang Research Journal UGC Care Group I Journal
ISSN : 2347-7180 Vol-09 Issue-03 September-December 2019
To build smaller and smaller chips, manufacturers have improved the accuracy of laser and lenses by reducing the
wavelength of the light striking the wafer.
The method behind the construction of current ICs involves shining light through a mask onto a photoresist-
coated loafer and subsequently removing the exposed areas. This process for manufacturing components of an
IC is termed as Lithography. In order to achieve the circuitry pattern on to the loafer, several techniques of
lithography can be applied. This paper will outline the most popular methods of Lithography that are employed
in the semi-conductor industry which at a very high level can be categorized as [1] Electron-Beam Lithography,
X-Ray Lithography and Optical Lithography.
Structure of Paper
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows: In Section 2, the objective of this paper is presented. In
Section 3, the various acronyms used in this paper have been given. The fundamentals of Lithography
comprising of the procedure and merits are presented in Section 4. Section 5 deals with detailed analysis of the
various approaches for chip manufacture using Lithography. The paper is concluded in Section 6.
2. OBJECTIVE
The present work is intended to meet the following objectives:
1. Summarize the process of chip manufacture using Lithography, along with merits and demerits.
2. Survey the existing Lithography tools that are employed for the development of ICs.
3. Present a detailed analysis on Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography (eUV) as a promising technology for
chip making.
3. ACRONYMS
1. AMD : Advanced Micro Devices.
2. ARF : Argon Fluoride.
3. DUV : Deep Ultraviolet Lithography.
4. EUV : Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography.
5. HF : Hydrogen Fluoride.
6. HSQ : Hydrogen Silises Quioscane.
7. IBM : International Business Machines.
8. IC : Integrated Circuit.
9. KRF : Krypton Fluoride.
10. PMMA : Poly Methyl Methacrylate.
11. PBS : Poly Butane -1 - Sulphone.
4. OVERVIEW OF LITHOGRAPHY
The term Lithography [3] originates from Greek words lithos meaning “stones” and graphia meaning
“writing”. In today’s semiconductor industry it is used to design 3-D images on a substrate. It is a process of
imprinting a geometric pattern from a mask onto a thin layer of materials called resist. The technology plays an
important role in the production of electronic device components such as integrated circuits. Figure 1 shows the
classification of lithography.
Page | 521 Copyright @ 2019 Authors