Dogo Rangsang Research Journal UGC Care Group I Journal
ISSN : 2347-7180 Vol-09 Issue-03 September-December 2019
3. Variable shaped beam: Projects a rectangle on the entire wafer at one time. These rectangles
usually are of order 1 micron or half micron, so can easily adjust the width and height to get variety
of shapes. This technique is used widely for the production of masks since it gives better
throughput and resolution as compared to other techniques.
Advantages
 E-Beam Lithography is designed in such a manner that it delivers optimum performance in the field of
research and development sector since it is automated and we can easily change the pattern when we
want and is used in manufacturing masks.
 We obtain less throughput and high resolution.
Limitations
 Dissolving Issues: E-beam resists are organic materials which upon eradication of negative resist create
cross linkage monomers and change the molecular weight at the same time. Making it heavy and
difficult to dissolve in the developer solution.
 Slow Process: Since the diameter of the electron beam is very small only a small scanned area will be
focused over and hence will take a longer time to write on the entire substrate [9].
 Proximity Effect: Different portions on the substrate have to be exposed for different amount of time.
Figure shows two points A and B where A will receive the maximum electron beam when exposed and
since point B is far from point A and will receive a very low amount of electron beam. This is termed as
Proximity Effect. Since electron beam are used to write onto a small area of the substrate, multiple
beams are being considered. Multiple beams are used altogether in parallel to write on the substrate and
develop patterns easily. This helps to develop masks quickly but practically hasn’t been demonstrated
yet.
X-Ray Lithography
Wilhelm Conrad Roentgen discovered an unknown ray in 1895 (X-Ray) that can cause barium platinocyanide
coated screen to glow. He won the first Nobel Prize in physics in 1901. In X-Ray Lithography X-Ray light is
applied to generate the pattern on the substrate. Resolution is a function of wavelength and shorter the
wavelength higher will be the resolution. Proximity printing is applied, where some gap is maintained between
the substrate and the X-Ray mask. The technique is developed to the extent of batch processing. The method is
simple to use since it requires no lenses. This technique originated as an advanced tool for next generation
lithography for the semiconductor industry with batches of microprocessors successfully produced. Figure 3
below depicts how x-ray lithography is carried out.
Page | 525 Copyright @ 2019 Authors