few, if any, “finger prints”.
2. Techno-vandalism: These acts of “brainless” defacement of websites and/or other activities, such as copying
files and publicizing their contents publicly, are usually opportunistic in nature. Tight internal security,
allied to strong technical safeguards should prevent the vast majority of such incidents.
There is a very thin line between the two terms “computer crime” and “computer fraud”; both are
punishable. Cybercrimes (harmful acts committed from or against a computer or network) differ from most
terrestrial crimes in four ways:
a. how to commit them is easier to learn,
b. they require few resources relative to the potential damage caused,
c. they can be committed in a jurisdiction without being physically present in it &
d. they are often not clearly illegal.
Important Definitions related to Cyber Security:
Cyberterrorism:
This term was coined in 1997 by Barry Collin, a senior research fellow at the institute for Security and
Intelligence in California. Cyberterrorism seems to be a controversial term. The use of information technology and
means by terrorist groups & agents is called as Cyberterrorism.
“The premeditated use of disruptive activities, or the threat thereof, against computers and/or networks,
with the intention to cause harm or further social, ideological, religious, political or similar objectives or to
intimidate any person in furtherance of such objectives.”
(or)
Cyberterrorism is defined as “any person, group or organization who, with terrorist intent, utilizesaccesses
or aids in accessing a computer or computer network or electronic system or electronic device by any available
means, and thereby knowingly engages in or attempts to engage in a terrorist act commits the offence of
cyberterrorism.”
Cybernetics:
Cybernetics deals with information and its use. Cybernetics is the science that overlaps the fields of
neurophysiology, information theory, computing machinery and automation. Worldwide, including India,
cyberterrorists usually use computer as a tool, target for their unlawful act to gain information.
Internet is one of the means by which the offenders can gain priced sensitive information of companies,
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 6