4. Any threats to the computer itself, such as theft of hardware or software, damage and demands for
money.
5. “Cybercrime (computer crime) is any illegal behavior, directed by means of electronic operations, that
targets the security of computer systems and the data processed by them.”
Note that in a wider sense, “computer-related crime” can be any illegal behavior committed by means of, or
in relation to, a computer system or network; however, this is not cybercrime. The term “cybercrime” relates to
a number of other terms that may sometimes be used to describe crimes committed using computers.
• Computer-related crime
• Computer crime
• Internet crime
• E-crime
• High-tech crime, etc. are the other synonymous terms.
Cybercrime specifically can be defined in a number of ways; a few definitions are:
1. A crime committed using a computer and the Internet to steal a person’s identity (identity theft) or sell
contraband or stalk victims or disrupt operations with malevolent programs.
2. Crimes completed either on or with a computer.
3. Any illegal activity done through the Internet or on the computer.
4. All criminal activities done using the medium of computers, the Internet, cyberspace and the WWW.
According to one information security, cybercrime is any criminal activity which uses network access to
commit a criminal act. Cybercrime may be internal or external, with the former easier to perpetrate. The term
“cybercrime” has evolved over the past few years since the adoption of Internet connection on a global scale with
hundreds of millions of users. Cybercrime refers to the act of performing a criminal act using cyberspaceas the
communications vehicle.
Some people argue that a cybercrime is not a crime as it is a crime against software & not against a person (or)
property. However, while the legal systems around the world scramble to introduce laws to combat cyber criminals,
2 types of attacks are prevalent:
1. Techno-crime: A premeditated act against a system or systems, with the intent to copy, steal, prevent access,
corrupt or otherwise deface or damage parts of or the complete computer system. The 24X7 connection to
the internet makes this type of cybercrime a real possibility to engineer from anywhere in the world, leaving
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 5