1
CHAPTER
Becoming a CISSP
This chapter presents the following:
• Description of the CISSP certification
• Reasons to become a CISSP
• What the CISSP exam entails
• The Common Body of Knowledge and what it contains
• The history of (ISC)2 and the CISSP exam
• An assessment test to gauge your current knowledge of security
This book is intended not only to provide you with the necessary information to help
you gain a CISSP certification, but also to welcome you into the exciting and challeng-
ing world of security.
The Certified Information Systems Security Professional (CISSP) exam covers ten
different subject areas, more commonly referred to as domains. The subject matter of
each domain can easily be seen as its own area of study, and in many cases individuals
work exclusively in these fields as experts. For many of these subjects, you can consult
and reference extensive resources to become an expert in that area. Because of this, a
common misconception is that the only way to succeed at the CISSP exam is to im-
merse yourself in a massive stack of texts and study materials. Fortunately, an easier
approach exists. By using this sixth edition of the CISSP All-in-One Exam Guide, you can
successfully complete and pass the CISSP exam and achieve your CISSP certification.
The goal of this book is to combine into a single resource all the information you need
to pass the CISSP exam and help you understand how the domains interact with each
other so that you can develop a comprehensive approach to security practices. This
book should also serve as a useful reference tool long after you’ve achieved your CISSP
certification.
Why Become a CISSP?
As our world changes, the need for improvements in security and technology continues
to grow. Security was once a hot issue only in the field of technology, but now it is be-
coming more and more a part of our everyday lives. Security is a concern of every orga-
nization, government agency, corporation, and military unit. Ten years ago computer
and information security was an obscure field that only concerned a few people. Because
the risks were essentially low, few were interested in security expertise.
1