Chapter 1: Becoming a CISSP
3
The CISSP exam comprises 250 multiple-choice questions, and you have up to six
hours to complete it. The questions are pulled from a much larger question bank to
ensure the exam is as unique as possible for each entrant. In addition, the test bank
constantly changes and evolves to more accurately reflect the real world of security. The
exam questions are continually rotated and replaced in the bank as necessary. Each
question has four answer choices, only one of which is correct. Only 225 questions are
graded, while 25 are used for research purposes. The 25 research questions are inte-
grated into the exam, so you won’t know which go toward your final grade. To pass the
exam, you need a minimum raw score of 700 points out of 1,000. Questions are
weighted based on their difficulty; not all questions are worth the same number of
points. The exam is not product- or vendor-oriented, meaning no questions will be
specific to certain products or vendors (for instance, Windows, Unix, or Cisco). Instead,
you will be tested on the security models and methodologies used by these types of
systems.
(ISC)2, which stands for International Information Systems Security Certification
Consortium, has also added scenario-based questions to the CISSP exam. These ques-
tions present a short scenario to the test taker rather than asking the test taker to iden-
tify terms and/or concepts. The goal of the scenario-based questions is to ensure that
test takers not only know and understand the concepts within the CBK, but also can
apply this knowledge to real-life situations. This is more practical because in the real
world, you won’t be challenged by having someone asking you “What is the definition
of collusion?” You need to know how to detect and prevent collusion from taking place,
in addition to knowing the definition of the term.
After passing the exam, you will be asked to supply documentation, supported by a
sponsor, proving that you indeed have the type of experience required to obtain this
certification. The sponsor must sign a document vouching for the security experience
you are submitting. So, make sure you have this sponsor lined up prior to registering
for the exam and providing payment. You don’t want to pay for and pass the exam, only
to find you can’t find a sponsor for the final step needed to achieve your certification.
The reason behind the sponsorship requirement is to ensure that those who achieve
the certification have real-world experience to offer organizations. Book knowledge is
extremely important for understanding theory, concepts, standards, and regulations,
but it can never replace hands-on experience. Proving your practical experience sup-
ports the relevance of the certification.
A small sample group of individuals selected at random will be audited after pass-
ing the exam. The audit consists mainly of individuals from (ISC)2 calling on the can-
didates’ sponsors and contacts to verify the test taker’s related experience.
What makes this exam challenging is that most candidates, although they work in
the security field, are not necessarily familiar with all ten CBK domains. If a security
professional is considered an expert in vulnerability testing or application security, for
example, she may not be familiar with physical security, cryptography, or forensics.
Thus, studying for this exam will broaden your knowledge of the security field.
The exam questions address the ten CBK security domains, which are described in
Table 1-1.