ISSN 2348-1196 (print)
International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology Research ISSN 2348-120X (online)
Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp: (373-377), Month: April-June 2014, Available at: www.researchpublish.com
In 1977, early PC-based Local Area Networks, or LANs (Local Area Networks) were spreading, and while initially
restricted to academics and hobbyists, they eventually found their way into the workplace and in homes, although the
explosion into the latter two arenas is a relatively recent phenomenon. LAN variants also developed, including
Metropolitan Area Networks (MANs) to cover large areas such as a college campus, and Wide Area Networks (WANs)
for university-to-university communication. With the widespread use of computers in the corporate world, the speed and
convenience of using them to communicate and transfer data has forever altered the landscape of how people conduct
business. Networks have become an integral part of the corporate world. Ubiquitous computing and Internet-capable
cellular phones have allowed people to remain connected, even if the individual is away from a fully wired office
environment.
III. PROPERTIES OF COMPUTER NETWORKS
Facilitate communications: Using a network, people can communicate efficiently and easily via email, instant
messaging, chat rooms, telephone, video telephone calls, and video conferencing. Permit sharing of files, data, and other
types of information In a network environment, authorized users may access data and information stored on other
computers on the network.
Facilitates interpersonal communications
People can communicate efficiently and easily via email, instant messaging, chat rooms, telephone, video telephone calls,
and video conferencing.
Allows sharing of files, data, and other types of information
Authorized users may access information stored on other computers on the network. Providing access to information on
shared storage devices is an important feature of many networks.
Allows sharing of network and computing resources
Users may access and use resources provided by devices on the network, such as printing a document on a shared network
printer. Distributed computing uses computing resources across a network to accomplish tasks.
May be insecure
A computer network may be used by computer Crackers to deploy computer viruses or computer worms on devices
connected to the network, or to prevent these devices from accessing the network (denial of service).
May interfere with other technologies
Power line communication strongly disturbs certain [5] forms of radio communication, e.g., amateur radio. It may also
interfere with last mile access technologies such as ADSL and VDSL. A complex computer network may be difficult to
set up. It may be costly to set up an effective computer network in a large organization.
IV. PROTOCOLS IN NETWORKING
Ethernet: The Ethernet protocol is by far the most widely used one. Ethernet uses an access method called CSMA/CD
(Carrier Sense Multiple Access/Collision Detection). This is a system where each computer listens to the cable before
sending anything through the network. If the network is clear, the computer will transmit. If some other nodes have
already transmitted on the cable, the computer will wait and try again when the line is clear. Sometimes, two computers
attempt to transmit at the same instant.
Fast Ethernet: To allow for an increased speed of transmission, the Ethernet protocol has developed a new standard that
supports 100 Mbps.
Page | 37 4
Research Publish Journals