firms, individuals, banks and can lead to intellectual property (IP) crimes, selling illegal articles, pornography/child
pornography, etc. This is done using methods such as Phishing, Spoofing, Pharming, Internet Phishing, wire
transfer, etc. and use it to their own advantage without the consent of the individual.
Phishing:
Phishing is a cyber attack that uses disguised email as a weapon. The goal is to trick the email recipient into
believing that the message is something they want or need a request from their bank, for instance, or a note from
someone in their company and to click a link or download an attachment.
Phishing is an attempt by an individual or a group to thieve personal confidential information such as
passwords, credit card information from unsuspecting victims for identity theft, financial gain &amp; other
fraudulent activities.
(or)
Phishing is a form of online identity theft that aims to steal sensitive information such as online banking
passwords, credit card information from users etc.
Cyberspace:
This is a term coined by William Gibson, a science fiction writer in 1984. Cyberspace is where users
mentally travel through matrices of data. Conceptually, cyberspace is the nebulous place where humans interact
over computer networks. The term “cyberspace” is now used to describe the Internet and other computernetworks.
In terms of computer science, “cyberspace” is a worldwide network of computer networks that uses the
Transmission Control Protocol/Internet Protocol (TCP/IP) for communication to facilitate transmission and
exchange of data. Cyberspace is most definitely a place where you chat, explore, research and play.
Cybersquatting:
The term is derived from “squatting” which is the act of occupying an abandoned/unoccupied space/
building that the user does not own, rent or otherwise have permission to use. Cybersquatting, however, is a bit
different in that the domain names that are being squatted are (sometimes but not always) being paid for by the
cybersquatters through the registration process.
Cybersquatters usually ask for prices far greater than those at which they purchased it. Some cybersquatters
put up derogatory or defamatory remarks about the person or company the domain is meant to represent in an
effort to encourage the subject to buy the domain from them. This term is explained herebecause, in a way,
it relates to cybercrime given the intent of cybersquatting.
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 7