task vested in the government, which must reimburse carriers and providers for retaining the data.
3. CoE Cyber Crime Convention (1997–2001) was the first international treaty seeking to address Internet
crimes by harmonizing national laws, improving investigative techniques and increasing cooperation
among nations. More than 40 countries have ratified the Convention to date.
Cybercrime and the Extended Enterprise:
It is a continuing problem that the average user is not adequately educated to understand the threats and
how to protect oneself. Actually, it is the responsibility of each user to become aware of the threats as well asthe
opportunities that “connectivity” and “mobility” presents them with. In this context, it is important to understand
the concept of “extended enterprise.” This term represents the concept that a company is made upnot just of
its employees, its board members and executives, but also its business partners, its suppliers and even its customers.
Figure: Extended Enterprise
The extended enterprise can only be successful if all of the component groups and individuals have the
information they need in order to do business effectively. An extended enterprise is a “loosely coupled, self-
organizing network” of firms that combine their economic output to provide “products and services” offerings
to the market. Firms in the extended enterprise may operate independently. Seamless flow of “information” to
support instantaneous “decision-making ability” is crucial for the “external enterprise”. This becomes possible
through the “interconnectedness”. Due to the interconnected features of information & communication
technologies, security overall can only be fully promoted when the users have full awareness of existing threats
& dangers.
Given the promises and challenges in the extended enterprise scenario, organizations in the international
community have a special role in sharing information on good practices and creating open and accessible enterprise
information flow channels for exchanging of ideas in a collaborative manner.
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 27