leads to insecure information
systems/application with vulnerabilities arising
due to consequences of break-in or
insider is misuse
On the other hand, violation of forensics policy
means lack of evidence which results in the
loss of ability of an organization to prove guilty
the people who
are involved in cybercrime incidence.
Example of forensics policy:
1. Goal is to capture data from network
intrusions for possible prosecution.
2. Forensics policy states that all events
identified as intrusions will have their
associated data captured and preserved
3. Enforcement mechanisms: routine
preservation of IDS, firewall, router and web
server logs for some configurable length of
time
Q3: List various Computer Forensics services available, explain any two of them.
Box 5.3:
Digital forensics investigations and E-discovery
Digital evidence plays an important role in threat management life cycle, from incident
response to high-stakes corporate litigation. Evidences involve computer hard drives,
portable storage, floppy diskettes, portable music players and PDA's, etc.....
Key evidences often reside on more than a user hard drive or file server, requiring the capture and
analysis of evidence from enterprise productivity servers, network logs or proprietary databases.
Many threats arise from illegal internet activities that extend beyond the firewall and require new
investigative and forensics approaches. Forensics professionals need supporting solution for the
acquisition, management and analysis of digital evidence.
Such computer forensics services include the following:
1. Data culling and targeting
2. Discovery/subpoena process
3. Production of evidence
4. Expert affidavit support
5. Criminal/Civil testimony
6. Cell phone forensics
7. PDA (Personal Digital Assistants) forensics
Specific client requests for forensics evidence extracting solution support include:
1. Index of files on hard drive
2. Index of recovered files
3. MS Office / user generate document extraction
4. Unique e-mail address extraction
5. Internet activity/ history
6. Keywords search
7. Chain of custody
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 5