Sec.74 (Publication for Chapter XI Offences Publishing of Digital Imprisonment for the
fraudulent purpose) Signatures for fraudulent term of 2 years and fine of
purpose Rs. 1 Lakh
Table: The key provisions under the Indian ITA 2000 (before the
amendment)
A GLOBAL PERSPECTIVE ON CYBERCRIMES
In Australia, cybercrime has a narrow statutory meaning as used in the Cyber Crime Act 2001, which details
offenses against computer data and systems. However, a broad meaning is given to cybercrime at an international
level. In the Council of Europe’s (CoE’s) Cyber Crime Treaty, cybercrime is used as an umbrella term to refer to
an array of criminal activity including offenses against computer data and systems, computer- related offenses,
content offenses and copyright offenses.
This wide definition of cybercrime overlaps in part with general offense categories that need not be
Information & Communication Technology (ICT)-dependent, such as white-collar crime and economic crime.
Although this status is from the International Telecommunication Union (ITU) survey conducted in 2005, we get
an idea about the global perspective. ITU activities on countering Spam can be read by visiting the link
www.itu.int/spam (8 May 2010). The Spam legislation scenario mentions “none” about India as far as E-Mail
legislation in India is concerned.
The linkage of cybersecurity and critical infrastructure protection has become a big issue as a number of
countries have began assessment of threats, vulnerabilities and started exploring mechanisms to redress them.
Recently, there have been a number of significant developments such as
1. August 4, 2006 Announcement: The US Senate ratifies CoE Convention on Cyber Crime. The convention
targets hackers, those spreading destructive computer viruses, those using the Internet for the sexual
exploitation of children or the distribution of racist material, and terrorists attempting to attack infrastructure
facilities or financial institutions. The Convention is in full accord with all the US
constitutional protections, such as free speech and other civil liberties, and will require no change to the US
laws.
2. In August 18, 2006, there was a news article published “ISPs Wary About ‘Drastic Obligations’ on Web
Site Blocking.” European Union (EU) officials want to debar suspicious websites as part of a 6-point
plan to boost joint antiterrorism activities. They want to block websites that incite terrorist action. Once
again it is underlined that monitoring calls, Internet and E-Mail traffic for law enforcement purposes is a
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 26