2.3 Social Engineering
 Social engineering is the “technique to influence” and “persuasion to deceive” people to
obtain the information or perform some action.
 Social engineers exploit the natural tendency of a person to trust social engineers’ word,
rather than exploiting computer security holes.
 It is generally agreed that people are the weak link in security and this principle makes
social engineering possible.
 A social engineer usually uses telecommunication (i.e., telephone and/or cell phone) or
Internet to get them to do something that is against the security practices and/or policies
of the organization.
 Social engineering involves gaining sensitive information or unauthorized access
privileges by building inappropriate trust relationships with insiders.
 It is an art of exploiting the trust of people, which is not doubted while speaking in a
normal manner.
 The goal of a social engineer is to fool someone into providing valuable information or
access to that information.
 Social engineer studies the human behavior so that people will help because of the desire
to be helpful, the attitude to trust people, and the fear of getting into trouble.
 The sign of truly successful social engineers is that they receive information without any
suspicion.
 A simple example is calling a user and pretending to be someone from the service desk
working on a network issue; the attacker then proceeds to ask questions about what the
user is working on, what file shares he/she uses, what his/her password is, and so on…
(see Box 2.6).
Box 2.6 | Social Engineering Example
Mr. Joshi: Hello?
The Caller: Hello, Mr. Joshi. This is Geeta Thomas from Tech Support. Due to some disk space
constraints on the file server, we will be moving few user’s home directories to another disk.
This activity will be performed tonight at 8:00 p.m. Your account will be a part of this move and
will be unavailable temporarily.
Mr. Joshi: Ohh … okay. I will be at my home by then, anyway.
Caller: Great!!! Please ensure to log off before you leave office. We just need to check a couple
of things. What is your username?
Mr. Joshi: Username is “pjoshi.” None of my files will be lost in the move, right?
Caller: No sir. But we will have to check your account to ensure the same. What is the password
of that account?
Mr. Joshi: My password is “ABCD1965,” all characters in upper case.
Caller: Ok, Mr. Joshi. Thank you for your cooperation. We will ensure that all the files are there.
Mr. Joshi: Thank you. Bye.