3. Crimes targeted at organizations: Cyber terrorism is one of the distinct crimes against
organizations/ governments. Attackers (individuals or groups of individuals) use
computer tools and the Internet to usually terrorize the citizens of a particular country by
stealing the private information, and also to damage the programs and fi les or plant
programs to get control of the network and/or system (see Box 2.3).
4. Single event of cybercrime: It is the single event from the perspective of the victim. For
example, unknowingly open an attachment that may contain virus that will infect the
system (PC/laptop). This is known as hacking or fraud.
5. Series of events: This involves attacker interacting with the victims repetitively. For
example, attacker interacts with the victim on the phone and/or via chat rooms to
establish relationship first and then they exploit that relationship to commit the sexual
assault.
Box 2.3 | Patriot Hacking
Patriot hacking[1] also known as Digital Warfare, is a form of vigilante computer systems’
cracking done by individuals or groups (usually citizens or supports of a country) against a real
or perceived threat. Traditionally, Western countries, that is, developing countries, attempts to
launch attacks on their perceived enemies.
Although patriot hacking is declared as illegal in the US, however, it is reserved only for
government agencies [i.e., Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) and National Security Agency
(NSA)] as a legitimate form of attack and defense. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) raised
the concern about rise in cyber attacks like website defacements (explained in Box 1.4,
Chapter1) and denial-of-service attacks (DoS – refer to Section 4.9, Chapter 4), which adds as
fuel into increase in international tension and gets mirrored it into the online world.
After the war in Iraq in 2003, it is getting popular in the North America, Western Europe and
Israel. These are countries that have the greatest threat to Islamic terrorism and its
aforementioned digital version.
The People’s Republic of China is allegedly making attacks upon the computer networks of the
US and the UK. Refer to Box 5.15 in Chapter 5. For detailed information visit
www.patriothacking.com
2.2 How Criminals Plan the Attacks
 Criminals use many methods and tools to locate the vulnerabilities of their target.
 The target can be an individual and/or an organization.
 Criminals plan passive and active attacks
 Active attacks are usually used to alter the system (i.e., computer network) whereas
passive attacks attempt to gain information about the target.
 Active attacks may affect the availability, integrity and authenticity of data whereas
passive attacks lead to violation of confidentiality.