of residence as well as of the office; E-Mail address; date of birth, etc.
2. Establish a contact with victim through telephone/cell phone. Once the contact is
established, the stalker may make calls to the victim to threaten/harass.
3. Stalkers will almost always establish a contact with the victims through E-Mail. The
letters may have the tone of loving, threatening or can be sexually explicit. The stalker
may use multiple names while contacting the victim.
4. Some stalkers keep on sending repeated E-Mails asking for various kinds of favors or
threaten the victim.
5. The stalker may post the victim’s personal information on any website related to illicit
services such as sex-workers’ services or dating services, posing as if the victim has
posted the information and invite the people to call the victim on the given contact details
(telephone numbers/cell phone numbers/E-Mail address) to have sexual services. The
stalker will use bad and/or offensive/attractive language to invite the interested persons.
6. Whosoever comes across the information, start calling the victim on the given contact
details ( telephone/cell phone nos), asking for sexual services or relationships.
7. Some stalkers subscribe/register the E-Mail account of the victim to innumerable
pornographic and sex sites, because of which victim will start receiving such kind of
unsolicited E-Mails.
2.4.4 Real-Life Incident of Cyberstalking
Case Study
The Indian police have registered first case of cyberstalking in Delhi – the brief account of the
case has been mentioned here. To maintain confidentiality and privacy of the entities involved,
we have changed their names.
 Mrs. Joshi received almost 40 calls in 3 days mostly at odd hours from as far away as
Kuwait, Cochin, Bombay, and Ahmadabad.
 The said calls created havoc in the personal life destroying mental peace of Mrs. Joshi
who decided to register a complaint with Delhi Police.
 A person was using her ID to chat over the Internet at the website www.mirc.com, mostly
in the Delhi channel for four consecutive days.
 This person was chatting on the Internet, using her name and giving her address, talking
in obscene language.
 The same person was also deliberately giving her telephone number to other chatters
encouraging them to call Mrs. Joshi at odd hours.
 This was the first time when a case of cyberstalking was registered.
 Cyberstalking does not have a standard definition but it can be defined to mean
threatening, unwarranted behavior, or advances directed by one person toward another
person using Internet and other forms of online communication channels as medium.
Box 2.8 | Cyberbullying
The National Crime Prevention Council defi nes Cyberbullying as “when the Internet,
cell phones or other devices are used to send or post text or images intended to hurt or embarrass