Vishing (voice phishing) is a type of phishing attack that is conducted by phone and often targets users of Voice
over IP (VoIP) services like Skype.
It’s easy to for scammers to fake caller ID, so they can appear to be calling from a local area code or even
from an organization you know. If you don’t pick up, then they’ll leave a voicemail message asking you to
call back. Sometimes these kinds of scams will employ an answering service or even a call center that’s unaware
of the crime being perpetrated.
Once again, the aim is to get credit card details, birthdates, account sign-ins, or sometimes just to harvest
phone numbers from your contacts. If you respond and call back, there may be an automated message
prompting you to hand over data and many people won’t question this, because they accept automated phone
systems as part of daily life now.
Smishing (SMS phishing) is a type of phishing attack conducted using SMS (Short Message Services) on
cell phones. Just like email phishing scams, smishing messages typically include a threat or enticement to
click a link or call a number and hand over sensitive information. Sometimes they might suggest you install some
security software, which turns out to be malware.
Smishing example: A typical smishing text message might say something along the lines of, “Your ABC
Bank account has been suspended. To unlock your account, tap here: https://bit.ly/2LPLdaU” and thelink
provided will download malware onto your phone. Scammers are also adept at adjusting to the medium
they’re using, so you might get a text message that says, “Is this really a pic of you? https://bit.ly/2LPLdaU” and
if you tap that link to find out, once again you’re downloading malware.
4. Spamming: People who create electronic Spam are called spammers. Spam is the abuse of electronicmessaging
systems (including most broadcast media, digital delivery systems) to send unrequested bulk messages
indiscriminately. Although the most widely recognized form of Spam is E-Mail Spam, the term is applied to similar
abuses in other media: instant messaging Spam, Usenet newsgroup Spam, web search engine Spam, Spam in blogs,
wiki Spam, online classified ads Spam, mobile phone messaging Spam, Internet forum Spam, junk fax
transmissions, social networking Spam, file sharing network Spam, video sharing sites, etc.
Spamming is difficult to control because it has economic viability – advertisers have no operating costs
beyond the management of their mailing lists, and it is difficult to hold senders accountable for their mass mailings.
Spammers are numerous; the volume of unrequested mail has become very high because the barrier to entry is low.
Therefore, the following web publishing techniques should be avoided:
 Repeating keywords;
 use of keywords that do not relate to the content on the site;
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 15