802.11 is a family of standards for wireless local area network (WLAN), stating the
specifications and/or requirements for computer communication.
2. Access points: It is also termed as AP. It is a hardware device and/or software that act as
a central transmitter and receiver of WLAN radio signals. Users of wireless device, such
as laptop/PDAs, get connected with these APs, which in turn get connected with the wired
LAN. An AP acts as a communication hub for users to connect with the wired LAN.
3. Wi-Fi hotspots: A hotspot is a site that offers the Internet access by using Wi-Fi
technology over a WLAN. Hotspots are found in public areas (such as coffee shops, public
libraries, hotels and restaurants) and are commonly offered facility throughout much of
North America and Europe.
 Free Wi-Fi hotspots: Wireless Internet service is offered in public areas, free of cost
and that to without any authentication.
 Commercial hotspots: The users are redirected to authentication and online payment to
avail the wireless Internet service in public areas.
4. Service Set IDentifier (SSID): It is the name of 802.11i WLAN and all wireless devices
on a WLAN must use the same SSID to communicate with each other. While setting up
WLAN, the user (or WLAN administrator) sets the SSID, which can be up to 32 characters
long so that only the users who knew the SSID will be able to connect the WLAN. It is
always advised to turn OFF the broadcast of the SSID.
5. Wired equivalence privacy (WEP): Wireless transmission is susceptible to
eavesdropping and to provide confidentiality, WEP was introduced as part of the original
802.11i Protocol in 1997. It is always termed as deprecated security algorithm for IEEE
802.11i WLANs. SSID along with WEP delivers fair amount of secured wireless network.
6. Wi-Fi protected access (WPA and WPA2): WPA was introduced as an interim standard
to replace WEP to improve upon the security features of WEP. WPA2 provides a stronger
encryption mechanism through Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), which is a
requirement for some corporate and government agencies.
7. Media access control (MAC): It is a unique identifier of each node (i.e., each network
interfaces) of the network and it is assigned by the manufacturer of a network interface
card (NIC) stored in its hardware. MAC address filtering allows only the devices with
specific MAC addresses to access the network.
Jyothi R, A ssistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) Page 22