access the Internet without the other person’s knowledge. However, one can identify time theft ifthe Internet
time has to be recharged often, even when one’s own use of the Internet is not frequent. The issue of Internet
time theft is related to the crimes conducted through identity theft.
Cybercrime against Organization
1. Unauthorized accessing of Computer: Hacking is one method of doing this and hacking is punishable
offense. Unauthorized computer access, popularly referred to as hacking, describes a criminal action whereby
someone uses a computer to knowingly gain access to data in a system without permission toaccess that
data.
2. Password Sniffing: Password Sniffers are programs that monitor and record the name and password of
network users as they login, jeopardizing security at a site. Whoever installs the Sniffer can then impersonate
an authorized user and login to access restricted documents. Laws are not yet set up to
adequately prosecute a person for impersonating another person online. Laws designed to prevent
unauthorized access to information may be effective in apprehending crackers using Sniffer programs.
3. Denial-of-service Attacks (DoS Attacks): It is an attempt to make a computer resource (i.e.., information
systems) unavailable to its intended users. In this type of criminal act, the attacker floods the bandwidth of the
victim’s network or fills his E-Mail box with spam mail depriving him of the services he is entitled to access
or provide. The goal of DoS is not to gain unauthorized access to systems or data, but to prevent intended users
(i.e., legitimate users) of a service from using it. A DoS attack may do the following:
a. Flood a network with traffic, thereby preventing legitimate network traffic.
b. Disrupt connections between two systems, thereby preventing access to a service.
c. Prevent a particular individual from accessing a service.
d. Disrupt service to a specifi c system or person.
4. Virus attacks/dissemination of Viruses:
Computer virus is a program that can “infect” legitimate (valid) programs by modifying them to include a
possibly “evolved” copy of itself. Viruses spread themselves, without the knowledge or permission of the
users, to potentially large numbers of programs on many machines. A computer virus passes from computer
to computer in a similar manner as a biological virus passes from person to person. Viruses may also contain
malicious instructions that may cause damage or annoyance; the combination of possibly Malicious Code with
the ability to spread is what makes viruses a considerable concern. Viruses can often spread without any readily
visible symptoms. Viruses can take some typical actions:
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 19