another person.”
www.StopCyberbullying.org, an expert organization dedicated to Internet safety,
security, and privacy defi nes cyberbullying as “a situation when a child, tween, or teen is
repeatedly ‘tormented, threatened, harassed, humiliated, embarrassed, or otherwise targeted’ by
another child, tween, or teen using text messaging, E-Mail, instant messaging, or any other type
of digital technology.”
The practice of cyberbullying is not limited to children and, while the behavior is
identified by the same definition in adults, the distinction in age groups is referred to as
cyberstalking or cyberharassment when perpetrated by adults toward adults.
Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyber-bullying (2 April 2009).
2.5 Cybercafe and Cybercrimes
 In February 2009, Nielsen survey on the profile of cybercafes users in India, it was found
that 90% of the audience, across eight cities and 3,500 cafes, were male and in the age
group of 15–35 years; 52% were graduates and postgraduates, though almost over 50%
were students.
 Hence, it is extremely important to understand the IT security and governance practiced
in the cybercafes.
 In the past several years, many instances have been reported in India, where cybercafes
are known to be used for either real or false terrorist communication.
 Cybercrimes such as stealing of bank passwords and subsequent fraudulent withdrawal of
money have also happened through cybercafes.
 Cybercafes have also been used regularly for sending obscene mails to harass people.
 Public computers, usually referred to the systems, available in cybercafes, hold two types
of risks.
 First, we do not know what programs are installed on the computer – that is, risk of
malicious programs such as keyloggers or Spyware, which maybe running at the
background that can capture the keystrokes to know the passwords and other confidential
information and/or monitor the browsing behavior.
 Second, over-the-shoulder surfing can enable others to find out your passwords.
Therefore, one has to be extremely careful about protecting his/her privacy on such
systems, as one does not know who will use the computer after him/her.
 Indian Information Technology Act (ITA) 2000, does not define cybercafes and
interprets cybercafes as “network service providers” referred to under the Section 79,
which imposed on them a responsibility for “due diligence” failing which they would be
liable for the offenses committed in their network.
 Cybercriminals prefer cybercafes to carry out their activities.
 The criminals tend to identify one particular personal computer (PC) to prepare it for
their use.
 Cybercriminals can either install malicious programs such as keyloggers and/or Spyware
or launch an attack on the target.
 Cybercriminals will visit these cafes at a particular time and on the prescribed frequency,