“What constitutes it?” To a communications layer that needs some of the overhead data
to do its job, the payload is sometimes considered to include that part of the overhead
data that this layer handles. The attack vectors described here are how most of them are
launched.
1. Attack by E-Mail: The content is either embedded in the message or linked to by the
message. Sometimes attacks combine the two vectors, so that if the message does not get
you, the attachment will. Spam is almost always carrier for scams, fraud, dirty tricks, or
malicious action of some kind. Any link that offers something “free” or tempting is a
suspect.
2. Attachments (and other files): Malicious attachments install malicious computer code.
The code could be a virus, Trojan Horse, Spyware, or any other kind of malware.
Attachments attempt to install their payload as soon as you open them.
3. Attack by deception: Deception is aimed at the user/operator as a vulnerable entry point.
It is not just malicious computer code that one needs to monitor. Fraud, scams, and to
some extent Spam, not to mention viruses, worms and such require the unwitting
cooperation of the computer’s operator to succeed. Social engineering are other forms of
deception that are often an attack vector too.
4. Hackers: Hackers/crackers are a formidable attack vector because, unlike ordinary
Malicious Code, people are flexible and they can improvise. Hackers/crackers use variety
of hacking tools, heuristics, Cyberoffenses: How and social engineering to gain access to
computers and online accounts. They often install a Trojan Horse to commandeer the
computer for their own use.
5. Heedless guests (attack by webpage): Counterfeit websites are used to extract personal
information. Such websites look very much like the genuine websites they imitate. One
may think he/she is doing business with someone you trust. However, he/she is really
giving their personal information, like address, credit card number, and expiration date.
They are often used in conjunction with Spam, which gets you there in the first place. Pop-
up webpages may install Spyware, Adware or Trojans.
6. Attack of the worms: Many worms are delivered as E-Mail attachments, but network
worms use holes in network protocols directly. Any remote access service, like file sharing, is likely
to be vulnerable to this sort of worm. In most cases, a firewall will block system worms. Many of these
system worms install Trojan Horses.
7. Malicious macros: Microsoft Word and Microsoft Excel are some of the examples that
allow macros. A macro does something like automating a spreadsheet, for example.
Macros can also be used for malicious purposes. All Internet services like instant
messaging, Internet Relay Chart(IRC), and P2P fi le-sharing networks rely on cozy
connections between the computer and the other computers on the Internet. If one is
using P2P software then his/her system is more vulnerable to hostile exploits.
8. Foistware (sneakware): Foistware is the software that adds hidden components to the
system with cunning nature. Spyware is the most common form of foistware. Foistware is
partial- legal software bundled with some attractive software. Sneak software often