What are the guidelines for the (digital) evidence Collection Phase.
1. Adhere to your site's security policy and engage the appropriate incident handling and law
enforcement personnel.
2. Capture a picture of the system as accurately as possible.
3. Keep detailed notes with date and times, if possible, generate an automatic transcript.
Notes and printout should be signed and dated.
4. Not the difference between the system clock and coordinated universal time for each time
stand provided indicate whether UTC or local time is used.
5. be prepared to testify perhaps your leader outlining all actions you to convert times detail
notes will be vital.
6. minimise changes to the data as you are collecting it this is not limited to content
changes avoid updating files or directly access time.
7. Remove external avenues for change.
8. when confronted with the choice between collection and analysis used to do collection
first and analysis later.
9. Needless to say, your procedures should be implementable. As with any aspect of an
incident response policy, procedures should be tested to ensure feasibility, particularly, in
a crisis. If possible, procedures should be automated for reasons of speed and accuracy.
Being methodical always helps.
10. For each device, a systematic approach should be adopted to follow the guidelines laid
down in your collection procedure. Speed will often be critical; therefore, where there are a
number of devices requiring examination, it may be appropriate to spread the work among
your team to collect the evidence in parallel. However, on a single given system collection
should be done step by step.
11. Proceed from the volatile to the less volatile; order of volatility is as follows:
 Registers, cache (most volatile, i.e., contents lost as soon as the power is turned OFF);
routing table, Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) cache, process table, kernel
statistics, memory;
 Temporary file systems;
 disk;
 remote logging and monitoring data that is relevant to the system in question;
 physical configuration and network topology;
 archival media (least volatile, i.e., holds data even after power is turned OFF).
12. we should make a bit-level copy of the system's media. If we wish to do forensics analysis we
should make a bit-level copy of pour evidence copy for that purpose, as our analysis will
almost certainly alter file access times. try to avoid doing forensics on the evidence copy.
Note: Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) is a very important part of IP networking.
ARP is used to connect O er (Network) to OSI Laver 2 (Datalink), For most of us this means
that ARP is used to link to our IP addressing to our Ethernet addressing (MAC
Addressing). For you to communicate with any device on you network, you must have the
Ethernet MAC address for that device. If that device is not on your land you go to your
default gateway.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 11