Module II: Cyber Offenses
How Criminals Plan Them – Introduction, How Criminals Plan The Attacks, Social Engineering,
and Cyber Stalking, Cyber Cafe And Cybercrimes, Botnets: The Fuel For Cybercrime, Attack
Vector Cloud Computing.
Learning Objectives
⦿ Understand different types of cyber attacks.
⦿ Get an overview of the steps involved in planning cybercrime.
⦿ Understand tools used for gathering information about the target.
⦿ Get an overview on social engineering – what and how.
⦿ Learn about the role of cybercafés in cybercrime.
⦿ Understand what cyber stalking is.
⦿ Learn about Botnets and attack vector.
⦿ Get an overview on cloud computing – what and how.
How Criminals Plan Them –Introduction
 Technology is a “double-edged sword” as it can be used for both good and bad purposes
 People with the tendency to cause damages or carrying out illegal activities will use it for
bad purpose.
 Computers and tools available in IT are also used as either target of offense.
 In today’s world of Internet and computer networks, a criminal activity can be carried out
across national borders.
 Chapter 1 provided an overview of hacking, cyber terrorism, network intrusions,
password sniffing, computer viruses, etc. They are the most commonly occurring crimes
that target the computer.
 Cybercriminal use the World Wide Web and Internet to an optimum level for all illegal
activities to store data, contacts, account information, etc.
 The criminals take advantage of the widespread lack of awareness about cybercrimes and
cyber laws among the people who are constantly using the IT infrastructure for official
and personal purposes.
 People who commit cybercrimes are known as “Crackers” (Box 2.1).
Box 2.1 | Hackers, Crackers and Phreakers
Hacker: A hacker is a person with a strong interest in computers who enjoys learning and
experimenting with them. Hackers are usually very talented, smart people who understand
computers better than others. The term is often confused with cracker that defines someone who
breaks into computers (refer to Box 2.2).
Brute force hacking: It is a technique used to find passwords or encryption keys. Brute force
hacking involves trying every possible combination of letters, numbers, etc., until the code is
broken.