2. Logic attacks: These kind of attacks can exploit vulnerabilities in network software such
as web server or TCP/IP stack.
3. Protocol attacks: Protocols here are rules that are to be followed to send data over network.
4. Unintentional DoS attack : This is a scenario where a website ends up denied not due to
a attack by a single individual or group of individuals, but simply due to a sudden enormous
spike in popularity.
Types or Levels of DoS Attacks
There are several types or levels of DoS attacks as follows:
1. Flood attack: This is the earliest form of DoS attack and is also known as ping food. It is
based on an attacker simply sending the victim overwhelming number of ping packets,
usually by using the “ping” command, which result into more traffic than the victim can
handle.
2. Ping of death attack: The ping of death attack sends oversized Internet Control
Message Protocol (ICMP) packets, and it is one of the core protocols of the IP Suite. It
is mainly used by networked computers’ OSs to send error messages indicating (e.g., that
a requested service is not available or that a host or router could not be reached) datagrams
(encapsulated in IP packets) to the victim.
3. SYN attack: It is also termed as TCP SYN Flooding. In the TCP, handshaking of network
connections is done with SYN and ACK messages.
 An attacker initiates a TCP connection to the server with an SYN.
 The server replies with an SYN-ACK.
 The client then does not send back an ACK, causing the server to allocate memory for
the pending connection and wait.
 This fills up the buffer space for SYN messages on the target system, preventing other
systems on the network from communicating with the target system.
4. Teardrop attack: The teardrop attack is an attack where fragmented packets are forged
to overlap each other when the receiving host tries to reassemble them. IP’s packet
fragmentation algorithm is used to send corrupted packets to confuse the victim
Jyothi R, A ssistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) Page 18