4.2.5 Phishing toolkits and Spy phishing
Explain Phishing Toolkits with examples.
A Phishing toolkit is a set of scripts/programs that allows a phisher to automatically set
up Phishing websites that spoof the legitimate websites of different brands including the
graphics displayed on these websites.
These developed by individual or groups and sold for money.
Phisher use hypertext pre-processor (PHP) to develop the phishing kits.
These are Do-It Yourself Phishing kits-information sent to recipients other than the authors
of Phishing kits) other than the intended users.
Distributed Phishing Attack (DPA)
• It is an advanced form of Phishing attack that works as per victim’s personalization
of the location of sites collecting credentials and a covert transmission of credential
to a hidden coordination centre run by the phisher.
• Here a large number of fraudulent web hosts are used for each set of lured E-Mails.
4.2.5 Phishing toolkits and Spy phishing
• A Phishing toolkit is a set of scripts/programs that allows a phisher to automatically
set up Phishing websites that spoof the legitimate websites of different brands
including the graphics displayed on these websites.
• These developed by individual or groups and sold for money.
• Phisher use hypertext pre-processor (PHP) to develop the phishing kits.
• These are Do-It Yourself Phishing kits-information sent to recipients other than the
authors of Phishing kits) other than the intended users.
• Rock Phish: It is a Phishing toolkit popular in the hacking community since 2005. It
allows non-techies to launch Phishing attacks.
• The kit allows a single website with multiple DNS name to host a variety of phished
webpages, covering numerous organizations and institutes
• Xrenoder Traojan Spyware: It resets the homepage and/or the search settings to
point to other websites usually for commercial purposes or porn traffic.
• Cpanel Google: It is a Trojan Spyware that modifies the DNS entry in the host's file
to point to its own website.
• If Google gets redirected to its website, a netizen may end up having a version of a
website prepared by the phisher.
4.2.6 Phishing countermeasures
What are countermeasures to prevent malicious attacks. (06M)
1. The countermeasures will prevent malicious attacks that phisher may target to gain
the unauthorized access to the system to steal the relevant personal information
about the victim, from the system.
2. It is always challenging to recognize/Judge the legitimacy of a website while
Googling (i.e., surfing on the Internet) and find it more intriguing while downloading
any attachment from that particular website.
Jy othi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 17