5.6.2. The Phases in Computer Forensics/Digital Forensics
The Forensics life cycle involves the following phases namely.
1. Preparation and identification;
2. collection and recording;
3. storing and transporting;
4. examination/investigation;
5. analysis, interpretation and attribution;
6. reporting;
7. testifying.
To mention very briefly, the process involves the following activities:
1. Prepare: Case briefings (see Box 5.9), engagement terms, interrogatories, spoliation
Prevention disclosure and discovery planning, discovery requests. ·
2. Record: Drive imaging, indexing, profiling, search plans, cost estimates, risk analysis.
3. Investigate: Triage images, data recovery, keyword searches, hidden data review,
communicate
iterate. '
4. Report: Oral vs. written, relevant document production, search statistic reports, chain of
custody reporting, case log reporting.
5. Testify: Testimony preparation, presentation preparation, testimony.
Let us take a brief look at each of the activities mentioned. Table 5.5 shows phase-wise outcome
from the phases mentioned above.
Box 5.9: Case Briefings
In case briefings, consider the following:
seen all re~
1. Ensure that you know both your client 's and the adverse party's position. and
have seen all relevant paperwork.
2. Try not to project a bias in the case description; the intent should be to consider the
case objectively, and provide you with the good news and the bad news (bad news
early can be good news)
3. Be upfront in discussing any limitations or restrictions on the forensics
investigation including budgetary constraints, time deadlines, cooperation levels
to be expected from the adverse party required travel, onsite or after-hours
forensics imaging requirements, etc.
Preparing for the evidence and identifying the evidence
In order to be processed and applied evidence must be first identified as evidence. it can happen that
there is an enormous amount of potential evidence of available for a legal matter and it is possible
that the vast majority of the potential evidence may never get identified.
consider that every sequence of events within a single computer might cause interaction with files
the file system in which day recite other processes and the program they are executive and
the files they produce and manage and block files and file of various sorts.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 16