message for post to be sent but the court shell not make up presumption as to the person but
whom that message was delivered for transmission.
As per section 66a of c and Indian act any electronic mail electronic message for the purpose
of causing convenience about the origin of such messages shall be punishable with
imprisonment for a term which may extend to 2 to 3 years and with fine.
Typically, the sender's E-Mail address can be found after the "From" section of the header.
However, that is not the only place it can be found. It can also be found under other sections
depending on the E-Mail client uses. These sections include the following.
1. X-originating E-Mail;
2. X-sender;
3. return-path.
RFC2822
RFC2822 is the Internet Message Format. According to the Internet specification RFC2822, there
are several formats of valid E-Mail addresses, like joshi@host.net, john@[10.0.3.19], "Joshi
Ganesh'@host.net or "Joshi Ganesh"@[10.0.3.19]. Many E-Mail address validators on the Web
fail to recognize some of those valid E-Mail addresses. Some examples of invalid E-Mail addresses
are as follows:
1. joshi@box@host.net: Two at signs (@) are not allowed;
2. joshi@host.net: Leading dor () is not allowed;
3. joshi@-host.net: Leading dash (-) is not allowed in on domain name;
4. joshi@host.web: Web is not a valid top-level domain;
5. joshi@[10.0.3.1999]: Invalid IP address.
The RFC2822 standard applies only to the Internet Message Format and some of the semantics
of messages contents. It contains no specification of the information in the envelope.
RFC2822 states that each E-Mail must have a globally unique identifier. It is included into the
header of an E-Mail.
9. With neat diagram explain process model for understanding a seizure and handling of forensics
evidence legal framework.
10. Discuss the following phases of Forensics life cycles
i) Preparation and Identification
ii) Collection and Recording
11. Discuss the following phases of Forensics life cycle
i) Storing and Transporting
ii) Examination/Investigation
12.Discuss the precautions to be taken when collecting electronic evidence.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 13