damage to data or equipment, solicitation of minors for sexual purposes, and gathering
information for harassment purposes.
 Cyberstalking refers to the use of Internet and/or other electronic communications
devices to stalk another person.
 It involves harassing or threatening behavior that an individual will conduct
repeatedly, for example, following a person, visiting a person’s home and/or at business place,
making phone calls, leaving written messages, or vandalizing against the person’s property. As the
Internet has become an integral part of our personal and professional lives, cyberstalkers take
advantage of ease of communication and an increased access topersonal information available with a
few mouse clicks or keystrokes.
2.4.1 Types of Stalkers
There are primarily two types of stalkers.
1. Online stalkers:
 They aim to start the interaction with the victim directly with the help of the Internet.
 E-Mail and chat rooms are the most popular communication medium to get connected
with the victim, rather than using traditional instrumentation like telephone/cell
phone.
 The stalker makes sure that the victim recognizes the attack attempted on him/her.
 The stalker can make use of a third party to harass the victim.
2. Offline stalkers:
 The stalker may begin the attack using traditional methods such as following the
victim, watching the daily routine of the victim, etc.
 Searching on message boards/newsgroups, personal websites, and people finding
services or websites are most common ways to gather information about the victim
using the Internet.
 The victim is not aware that the Internet has been used to perpetuate an attack against
them.
2.4.2 Cases Reported on Cyberstalking
 The majority of cyberstalkers are men and the majority of their victims are women.
 Some cases also have been reported where women act as cyberstalkers and men as the
victims as well as cases of same-sex cyberstalking.
 In many cases, the cyberstalker and the victim hold a prior relationship, and the
cyberstalking begins when the victim attempts to break off the relationship, for example,
ex-lover, ex-spouse, boss/subordinate, and neighbor.
 However, there also have been many instances of cyberstalking by strangers.
2.4.3 How Stalking Works?
It is seen that stalking works in the following ways:
1. Personal information gathering about the victim: Name; family background; contact
details such as cell phone and telephone numbers (of residence as well as office); address