computers on the Internet, whenever one has only one IP address
 One of the advantages of a proxy server is that its cache memory can serve all users.
 If one or more websites are requested frequently, may be by different users, it is
likely to be in the proxy’s cache memory, which will improve user response time.
 An anonymizer or an anonymous proxy is a tool that attempts to make activity on
the Internet untraceable. It accesses the Internet on the user’s behalf, protecting
personal information by hiding the source computer’s identifying information.
 Anonymizers are services used to make Web surfing anonymous by utilizing a
website that acts as a proxy server for the web client.
Phishing
“Phishing” refers to an attack using mail programs to deceive Internet users into disclosing
confidential information that can be then exploited for illegal purposes.
 While checking electronic mail (E-Mail) one day a user finds a message from the bank
threatening to close the bank account if he/she does not reply immediately.
 Although the message seems to be suspicious from the contents of the message, it is
difficult to conclude that it is a fake/false E-Mail.
 This message and other such messages are examples of Phishing – in addition to stealing
personal and financial data – and can infect systems with viruses and also a method of
online ID theft in various cases.
 These messages look authentic and attempt to get users to reveal their personal information.
 It is believed that Phishing is an alternative spelling of “fishing,” as in “to fish for
information.”
 The first documented use of the word “Phishing” was in 1996.
How Phishing Works?
Phishers work in the following ways:
1. Planning: Criminals, usually called as phishers, decide the target.
2. Setup: Once phishers know which business/business house to spoof and who their
victims.
3. Attack: the phisher sends a phony message that appears to be from a reputable source.
4. Collection: Phishers record the information of victims entering into webpages or pop-
Jyothi R, A ssistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) Page 3