⯈ All such transactions as well as every succeeding transaction between evidence collection and
its appearance in court need to be completely documented chronologically to withstand legal
challenges to the authenticity of the evidence.
⯈ Documentation must include conditions under which the evidence is collected, the identity
of all those who handled the evidence, duration of evidence custody,
security conditions while handling or storing the evidence and the manner in which
evidence is transferred to subsequent custodians each time such a transfer occurs (along
with the signatures of persons involved at each step).
⯈ Chain of custody is also used in most evidence situations to maintain the integrity of the
evidence by providing documentation of the control, transfer and analysis of evidence.
⯈ Chain of custody is particularly important in situations where sampling can
identify the existence of contamination and can be used to identify the responsible party.
Box 5.4: Chain of Custody Example
CASE STUDY
Officer Amar collects the knife and places it into a container, then gives it to forensic
technician Balan. Forensics technician Balan takes the knife to the laboratory
and collects fingerprints and other
evidence from the knife. He then gives the knife and all evidence gathered from the knife
to evidence
clerk Charu. Charu then stores the evidence until it needed, documenting everyone who
has accessed the original evidence (the knife and original copies of the lifted
fingerprints).
The chain of custody requires that from the moment the evidence is collected,
every transfer of Evidence from one person to another person should be documented as
it helps to prove that nobody else could have accessed that evidence. It is advisable to
keep the number of evidence transfers as low as possible. In the courtroom, if the
defendant challenges the chain of custody of the evidence, it can be proven that the knife
in the evidence room is the same as found at the crime scene. However, if due to some
discrepancies it cannot be proven who had the knife at a particular point in time. Then
the chain of custody is broken and the defendant can ask to have the resulting evidence
declares inadmissible.
Q5: Discuss the Cyber Forensics and Digital Evidence
Q6: Explain the rules of evidence
5.5 Cyber Forensics and Digital Evidence,
Cyberforensics can be divided into two main domains
1. Computer forensic
2. Network forensic
As compared the physical evidence digital visions is different in nature because of it has some
unique characteristics.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 8