Fig. 5.5: Process model for understanding a seizure and handling of forensics evidence legal
framework.
Box 5.8: Forensics Experts What do they Do?
The role of forensics experts has become a very special one in digital forensics and there are
many reasons for it. Handling of digital evidence requires special expertise that come from training
and experience.
A forensics expert team brings the following additional benefits:
1. Technology expertise:
This is perhaps the biggest advantage of partnership with a computer forensics expert. As an
example of the technological complexity, consider the proliferation of operating systems in the last
decade: mainframe operating systems, Windows 95/98, UNIX, Linux, Windows NT, Windows
Server, Macintosh, Windows 2000, Windows XP and Novell Netware. Specific forensics tools
must be used with each of these file systems, along with training and experience to interpret search
results. Although some evidence may be found easily, other evidence may have been deleted,
altered, hidden or encrypted. Forensics experts routinely deal with such complexities and
nuances.
2. Forensics methodology: A comprehensive forensics methodology, repeatable and
defensible, has become a key attribute in choosing a forensics expert firm. Proper use of a
repeatable process prevents making the same mistake twice, ensures proper chain of custody,
leverages successful techniques from prior cases, supports clear and concise testimony, and
generally guarantees efficient forensics case management.
3. Experience and efficiency: The tools and methods of computer forensics examination are still
in their infancy. Experts know how to quickly navigate through the variety of esoteric tools and
procedures. Experts also have the experience to cull thousands of files based on patterns and
keywords. Therefore, working with experts will efficiently produce relevant results for counsel.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 15