Cybersquatting means registering, selling or using a domain name with the intent of profiting from the
goodwill of someone else’s trademark. In this nature, it can be considered to be a type of cybercrime.
Cybersquatting is the practice of buying “domain names” that have existing businesses names.
In India, Cybersquatting is considered to be an Intellectual Property Right (IPR). In India, Cybersquatting
is seen to interfere with “Uniform Dispute Resolution Policy” (a contractual obligation to which all domain name
registrants are presently subjected to).
Cyberpunk:
This is a term coined by Bruce Bethke, published in science fiction stories magazine in November 1983.
According to science fiction literature, the words “cyber” and “punk” emphasize the two basic aspects of
cyberpunk: “technology” and “individualism.” The term “cyberpunk” could mean something like “anarchy
via machines” or “machine/computer rebel movement.”
Cyberwarfare:
Cyberwarfare means information attacks against an unsuspecting opponent’s computer networks,
destroying and paralyzing nations. This perception seems to be correct as the terms cyberwarfare and
Cyberterrorism have got historical connection in the context of attacks against infrastructure. The term “information
infrastructure” refers to information resources, including communication systems that support an industry,
institution or population. These type of Cyber attacks are often presented as threat to military forcesand the
Internet has major implications for espionage and warfare.
CYBERCRIME AND INFORMATION SECURITY
Lack of information security gives rise to cybercrimes. Let us refer to the amended Indian Information
Technology Act (ITA) 2000 in the context of cybercrime. From an Indian perspective, the new version of the Act
(referred to as ITA 2008) provides a new focus on “Information Security in India". "Cybersecurity” means
protecting information, equipment, devices, computer, computer resource, communication device and information
stored therein from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification or destruction.The term
incorporates both the physical security of devices as well as the information stored therein. It covers protection
from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification and destruction.
Where financial losses to the organization due to insider crimes are concerned (e.g., leaking customer data),
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 8