hijacks your browser and diverts you to some “revenue opportunity” that the foistware
has set up.
9. Viruses: These are malicious computer codes that hitch a ride and make the payload.
Nowadays, virus vectors include E-Mail attachments, downloaded files, worms, etc.
Box 2.10 | Zero-Day Attack
A zero-day (or zero-hour) attack[17] is a computer threat which attempts to exploit computer
application vulnerabilities that are unknown to anybody in the world (i.e., undisclosed to the
software vendor and software users) and/or for which no patch (i.e., security fi x) is available.
Zero-day exploits are used or shared by attackers before the software vendor knows about the
vulnerability.
Sometimes software vendors discover the vulnerability but developing a patch can take time.
Alternatively, software vendors can also hold releasing the patch reason to avoid the flooding the
customers with numerous individual updates. A “zero-day” attack is launched just on or before
the first or “zeroth” day of vendor awareness, reason being the vendor should not get any
opportunity to communicate/distribute a security fix to users of such software. If the
vulnerability is not particularly dangerous, software vendors prefer to hold until multiple updates
(i.e., security fixes commonly known as patches) are collected and then release them together as
a package. Malware writers are able to exploit zero-day vulnerabilities through several different
attack vectors.
Zero-day emergency response team (ZERT): This is a group of software engineers who work
to release non-vendor patches for zero-day exploits. Nevada is attempting to provide support
with the Zeroday Project at www.zerodayproject.com, which purports to provide information on
upcoming attacks and provide support to vulnerable systems. Also, visit the weblink
http://www.isotf.org/zert to get more information about it.
2.8 Cloud Computing
 The growing popularity of cloud computing and virtualization among organizations have
made it possible, the next target of cybercriminals.
 Cloud computing services, while offering considerable benefits and cost savings, move
servers outside the organizations security perimeter, which make it easier for
cybercriminals to attack these systems.
 Cloud computing is Internet (“cloud”)-based development and use of computer
technology (“computing”).
 The term cloud is used as a metaphor for the Internet, based on the cloud drawing used to
depict the Internet in computer networks.
 Cloud computing is a term used for hosted services delivered over the Internet.
 A cloud service has three distinct characteristics which differentiate it from traditional
hosting:
1. It is sold on demand – typically by the minute or the hour;
2. It is elastic in terms of usage – a user can have as much or as little of a service as
he/she wants at any given time;