as a trigger event) occurs. Some viruses may be termed as logic bombs because they lie dormantall through the
year and become active only on a particular date.
8. Pornographic Offenses: Child pornography means any visual depiction, including but not limited to the
following:
1. Any photograph that can be considered obscene and/or unsuitable for the age of child viewer;
2. film, video, picture;
3. computer-generated image or picture of sexually explicit conduct where the production of such visual
depiction involves the use of a minor engaging in sexually explicit conduct.
Child Pornography is considered an offense. The internet is being highly used by its abusers to reach and abuse
children sexually, worldwide. The Internet has become a household commodity in the urban areas of the nation. Its
explosion has made the children a viable victim to the cybercrime. As the broad-band connections get intothe
reach of more and more homes, larger child population will be using the Internet and therefore greaterwould
be the chances of falling victim to the aggression of pedophiles. Pedophiles are the people who physically or
psychologically coerce minors to engage in sexual activities, which the minors would not consciously consent too.
Here is how pedophiles operate:
 Step 1: Pedophiles use a false identity to trap the children/teenagers.
 Step 2: They seek children/teens in the kids’ areas on the services, such as the Games BB or chat areas
where the children gather.
 Step 3: They befriend children/teens.
 Step 4: They extract personal information from the child/teen by winning his/her confidence.
 Step 5: Pedophiles get E-Mail address of the child/teen and start making contacts on the victim’s E-Mail
address as well. Sometimes, these E-Mails contain sexually explicit language.
 Step 6: They start sending pornographic images/text to the victim including child pornographic images
in order to help child/teen shed his/her inhibitions so that a feeling is created in the mind of the victim
that what is being fed to him is normal and that everybody does it.
 Step 7: At the end of it, the pedophiles set up a meeting with the child/teen out of the house and then
drag him/her into the net to further sexually assault him/her or to use him/her as a sex object.
9. Password Sniffing: is a hacking technique that uses a special software application that allows a hacker to steal
usernames and passwords simply by observing and passively recording network traffic. This often happens on
public WiFi networks where it is relatively easy to spy on weak or unencrypted traffic.
And yet, password sniffers aren’t always used for malicious intent. They are often used by IT professionals
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 17