2. Road-and-reel
• In this method, phishers identify specific prospective victims in advance, and
convey false information to them to prompt their disclosure of personal and
financial data.
• For example, on the phony webpage, availability of similar item for a better price
(i.e., cheaper price) is displayed which the victims may be searching for and upon
visiting the webpage, victims were asked for personal information such as name,
bank account numbers and passwords, before confirming that the "sale" and the
information is available to the phisher easily.
• 3. Lobsterpot
• This method focuses upon use of spoofed websites.
• It consists of creating of bogus/ phony websites, similar to legitimate corporate
ones, targeting a narrowly defined class of victims, which is likely to seek out.
• These attacks are also known as "content injection Phishing.”
• Here the phisher places a weblink into an E-Mail message to make it look more
legitimate and actually takes the victim to a phony scam site, which appears as
legitimate website similar to official site. These fake sites are spoofed websites.
• Ones the netizens is into the one of these spoofed sites, he/she might willingly send
personal information to the con artist. Then they use your information to purchase
goods, apply new credit card or to steal your identity.
4. Gillnet
 This technique relies far less on social engineering techniques and phishers
introduce Malicious Code into E-Mails and websites.
 They can, for example, misuse browser functionality by injecting hostile content
into another site's pop-up window.
 Merely by opening a particular E-Mail or browsing a particular website, netizens
may have a Trojan Horse introduced into their systems.
 In some cases, the Malicious Code will change settings in user's systems so that
users who want to visit legitimate banking websites will be redirected to a look-alike
Phishing site.
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 7