Airsnort: This tool is very easy and is usually used to sniff and crack WEP keys
CowPatty: This tool is used as a brute force tool for cracking WPA-PSK and is considered to be
the “New WEP” for home wireless security.
Wireshark (formerly ethereal): Ethereal can scan wireless and Ethernet data and comes with
some robust filtering capabilities. It can also be used to sniff out 802.11 management Beacons and
probes, and subsequently could be used as a tool to sniff out non-broadcast SSIDs.
Traditional Techniques of Attacks on Wireless Networks
In security breaches, penetration of a wireless network through unauthorized access is
termed as wireless cracking. There are various methods that demand high level of technological
skill and knowledge, and availability of numerous software tools made it less sophisticated with
minimal technological skill to crack WLANs.
1. Sniffing: The attacker usually installs the sniffers remotely on the victim’s system and
conducts activities such as
 Passive scanning of wireless network;
 detection of SSID;
 colleting the MAC address;
 collecting the frames to crack WEP.
2. Spoofing: The attacker often launches an attack on a wireless network by simply creating
a new network with a stronger wireless signal and a copied SSID in the same area as a
original network. Different types of Spoofing are as follows.
 MAC address Spoofing
 IP Spoofing:
 Frame Spoofing:
3. Denial of service (DoS): We have explained this attack in detail in UNIT-2.
4. Man-in-the-middle attack (MITM): It refers to the scenario wherein an attacker on host
A inserts A between all communications – between hosts X and Y without knowledge of X
and Y. All messages sent by X do reach Y but through A and vice versa. The objective
behind this attack is to merely observe the communication or modify it before sending it
out.
5. Encryption cracking: It is always advised that the first step to protect wireless networks
Jyothi R, A ssistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) Page 24