3. The service is fully managed by the provider – a user just needs PC and Internet
connection.
Significant innovations into distributed computing and virtualization as well as improved
access speed over the Internet have generated a great demand for cloud computing.
2.8.1 Why Cloud Computing?
The cloud computing has following advantages.
1. Applications and data can be accessed from anywhere at any time. Data may not be held
on a hard drive on one user’s computer.
2. It could bring hardware costs down. One would need the Internet connection.
3. Organizations do not have to buy a set of software or software licenses for every
employee and the organizations could pay a metered fee to a cloud computing company.
4. Organizations do not have to rent a physical space to store servers and databases. Servers
and digital storage devices take up space. Cloud computing gives the option of storing
data on someone else’s hardware, thereby removing the need for physical space on the
front end.
5. Organizations would be able to save money on IT support because organizations will
have to ensure about the desktop (i.e., a client) and continuous Internet connectivity
instead of servers and other hardware. The cloud computing services can be either private
or public.
2.8.2 Types of Services
Services provided by cloud computing are as follows:
1. Infrastructure-as-a-service (IaaS): It is like Amazon Web Services that provide virtual
servers with unique IP addresses and blocks of storage on demand. Customers benefit from an
Application Programmable Interface (API) from which they can control their servers. As
customers can pay for exactly the amount of service they use, like for electricity or water, this service is
also called utility computing.
2. Platform-as-a-service (PaaS): It is a set of software and development tools hosted on
the provider’s servers. Developers can create applications using the provider’s APIs.
Google Apps is one of the most famous PaaS providers. Developers should take notice
that there are not any interoperability standards; therefore, some providers may not allow
you to take your application and put it on another platform.
3. Software-as-a-service (SaaS): It is the broadest market. In this case, the provider allows
the customer only to use its applications. The software interacts with the user through
a user interface. These applications can be anything from Web-based E-Mail to
applications such as Twitter or Last.fm.
2.8.3 Cybercrime and Cloud Computing
 Nowadays, prime area of the risk in cloud computing is protection of user data. Although
cloud computing is an emerging field, the idea has been evolved over few years.
 Risks associated with cloud computing environment are as follows