The following phases are involved in planning cybercrime:
1. Reconnaissance (information gathering) is the first phase and is treated as passive
attacks.
2. Scanning and scrutinizing the gathered information for the validity of the information as
well as to identify the existing vulnerabilities.
3. Launching an attack (gaining and maintaining the system access).
2.2.1 Reconnaissance (reconnaissance= 9ఘa)
 The literal meaning of “Reconnaissance” is an act of finding something or somebody
(especially to gain information about an enemy or potential enemy).
 In the world of “hacking,” reconnaissance phase begins with “Footprinting” – this is the
preparation toward pre-attack phase, and involves accumulating data about the target’s
environment and computer architecture to find ways to intrude into that environment.
 Footprinting gives an overview about system vulnerabilities and provides a judgment
about possible exploitation of those vulnerabilities.
 The objective of this preparatory phase is to understand the system, its networking ports
and services, and any other aspects of its security that are needful for launching the
attack.
 Thus, an attacker attempts to gather information in two phases: passive and active
attacks. Let us understand these two phases.
2.2.2 Passive Attacks
A passive attack involves gathering information about a target without his/her (individual’s
or company’s) knowledge. It can be as simple as watching a building to identify what time
employees enter the building premises. However, it is usually done using Internet searches or by
Googling (i.e., searching the required information with the help of search engine Google) an
individual or company to gain information.
1. Google or Yahoo search: People search to locate information about employees.
2. Surfing online community groups like Orkut/Facebook will prove useful to gain the
information about an individual.
3. Organization’s website may provide a personnel directory or information about key
employees, for example, contact details, E-Mail address, etc. These can be used in a
social engineering attack to reach the target (see Section 2.3).
4. Blogs, newsgroups, press releases, etc. are generally used as the mediums to gain
information about the company or employees.
5. Going through the job postings in particular job profiles for technical persons can provide
information about type of technology, that is, servers or infrastructure devices a company maybe
using on its network.