 there is no legal right to use the product, etc.
Cybercrime against Society
1. Forgery: Counterfeit currency notes, postage and revenue stamps, marksheets, etc. can be forged using
sophisticated computers, printers and scanners. Outside many colleges there are miscreants soliciting the sale
of fake mark-sheets or even degree certificates. These are made using computers and high quality scanners and
printers. In fact, this is becoming a booming business involving large monetary amount givento student gangs
in exchange for these bogus but authentic looking certificates.
2. Cyberterrorism: Cyberterrorism is a controversial term. Cyberterrorism is the use of the Internet to conduct
violent acts that result in, or threaten, loss of life or significant bodily harm, in order to achieve political or
ideological gains through threat or intimidation. It is also sometimes considered an act ofInternet terrorism
where terrorist activities, including acts of deliberate, large-scale disruption of computer networks, especially
of personal computers attached to the Internet by means of tools such as computer viruses, computer worms,
phishing, and other malicious software and hardware methods and programming scripts.
3. Web Jacking: Web jacking occurs when someone forcefully takes control of a website (by cracking the
password and later changing it). Thus, the first stage of this crime involves “password sniffing”. The actual
owner of the website does not have any more control over what appears on that website.
Crimes emanating from Usenet newsgroup:
By its very nature, Usenet groups may carry very offensive, harmful, inaccurate or otherwise inappropriate
material, or in some cases, postings that have been mislabeled or are deceptive in another way. Therefore, it is
expected that you will use caution and common sense and exercise proper judgment when using Usenet, as well as
use the service at your own risk.
Usenet is a popular means of sharing and distributing information on the Web with respect to specific topic
or subjects. Usenet is a mechanism that allows sharing information in a many-to-many manner. The newsgroups
are spread across 30,000 different topics.
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 22