collection and  Determine water particular piece of digital crime type
recording evidence is and identifying possible source of potential
preserving and data evidence
transportation  determine where the evidence is physically source media
located the variable device event
 Translating the media into data
 ensuring integrity and authenticity of the
digital evidence for example write protection
hashes etc
 packaging transporting and storing the
digital evidence
 preventing people from using the digital device
or allowing other electromagnetic device to be
used within an affected radius
 recording the physical scene
 duplicating the digital evidence using
standardised and accepted procedure
 ensuring the validity and integrity of
evidence for later use
examination  Determine Hing how the data is produced,
investigation and when and why whom. log files, file
analysis  determine and validating the techniques to events log data
interpretation and find and interpret significant data. information
attribution
 extracting hidden data, discovering the
hidden data and matching the pattern.
 recognising fbs pieces of digital evidence and
assessing the skills level of suspect.
 transform the data into more manageable
size and form for analysis.
 confirming or refuting allegations of
suspicious activity.
 identifying and locating potential evidence,
possibly Within unconventional locations.
 constructing detailed documentation for
analysis and drawing conclusions based on
evidence found.
 determining significant based on evidence
found.
 testing and rejecting theories based on
digital evidence.
 organising the analysis results from the
collected physical and digital evidence.
 eliminating duplication of analysis
 build a timeline
 constructing a hypothesis of what occurred
and comparing the extracted data with the
target.
 documenting the finding and all steps taken.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 25