presentation and evidence,
reporting  Preparing and presenting the information report
resulting from analysis phase.
 determine the issues relevance of the
information, its reliability and who can
testify to it.
 interpreting the statistical from analysis
phase.
 clarifying the evidence and documenting the
finding.
 summarizing and providing explanation of
conclusions.
 presenting the physical and digital evidence to a
court or corporate management.
 attempting to confirm each piece of evidence and
each event in the chain either along with each
other are independent of one evidence and or
other events.
 providing the validity of the hypothesis and
defend it against criticism and challenge.
 Communicating Relevant findings to a
variety of audience management technical
personally law enforcement.
disseminating the  Physical and digital property is return to evidence
case proper owner. explanation
 determining how and what criminal evidence new policies
must be removed. and
investigation
 reviewing the investigation to identify areas of
procedures
improvement.
evidence the
 discriminating the information from the
post
investigation.
investigation
 closing out the investigation and preserving
closed
knowledge gained
5.7.3. Precautions to be taken when collecting Electronic Evidence.
Collection of evidence must happen with due care. special measures should be taken while
conducting a forensic investigation if it is desired for the results to be used in a court of law one of
the most important major is to ensure that the evidence has been accurately collected and that there is
a clear chain of custody right from the scene of crime to the investigator and ultimately to the court.
in order to comply with the need to maintain the integrity of digital dividend certain rules must be
compiled with.
the general principles are
Principle 1:
No action taken by law enforcement Agencies or their agent should change data held on a
computer or storage media, which may subsequently be relied upon in court.
Principle 2:
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 26