as a tool to identify weak applications that may be passing critical information unencrypted over the Local Area
Network (LAN). IT practitioners know that users download and install risky software at times in their environment,
running a passive password sniffer on the network of a business to identify leaky applications is one legitimate
use of a password sniffer.
Cybercrime against property
1. Credit Card Frauds: Credit card fraud is an inclusive term for fraud committed using a payment card, such
as a credit card or debit card. The purpose may be to obtain goods or services, or to make payment to another
account which is controlled by a criminal. The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is
the data security standard created to help businesses process card payments securely and reduce
card fraud. Credit card fraud can be authorised, where the genuine customer themselves processes a payment
to another account which is controlled by a criminal, or unauthorised, where the account holder does not
provide authorisation for the payment to proceed and the transaction is carried out by a third party.
Credit cards are more secure than ever, with regulators, card providers and banks taking
considerable time and effort to collaborate with investigators worldwide to ensure fraudsters aren't successful.
Cardholders' money is usually protected from scammers with regulations that make the card provider and bank
accountable. The technology and security measures behind credit cards are becoming increasingly sophisticated
making it harder for fraudsters to steal money.
2. Intellectual Property (IP) Crimes: With the growth in the use of internet these days the cyber crimes are also
growing. Cyber theft of Intellectual Property (IP) is one of them. Cyber theft of IP means stealing of copyrights,
software piracy, trade secrets, patents etc., using internet and computers.
Copyrights and trade secrets are the two forms of IP that is frequently stolen. For example,
stealing of software, business strategies etc. Generally, the stolen material is sold to the rivals or others for
further sale of the product. This may result in the huge loss to the company who originally created it.
Another major cyber theft of IP faced by India is piracy. These days one can get pirated version of movies,
software etc. The piracy results in a huge loss of revenue to the copyright holder. It is difficult to find the cyber
thieves and punish them because everything they do is over internet, so they erase the data immediately and
disappear within fraction of a second.
 Internet time theft: Such a theft occurs when an unauthorized person uses the Internet hours paid for by another
person. Basically, Internet time theft comes under hacking because the person who gets access to someone
else’s ISP user ID and password, either by hacking or by gaining access to it by illegal means,uses it to
J yothi R, Assistant Professor, Dept.of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 18