5. Network analysis: It is the analysis of data on a communications network. Network
packers can be examined using the OSI Model to interpret the raw data into an application-
level scream.
Analysis types are
OS analysis: An OS is an application; it is the first one that is run when a computer starts.
This analysis examines another configuration file and output data of the OS to determine
what events may be occurred.
Executable analysis:
executables are digital object that can cause events to occur and their frequently
examine during intrusion investigation because the investigator needs to determine what
events the executable could cause
6. Image analysis:
image is a single searchable file.
Digital images are the target of many digital investigations because some are Contraband.
this type of analysis Looks for information about where the picture was taken and who
are what is in the picture image analysis also includes examining images for evidence of
steganography
7. Video analysis
digital radio is used in security cameras and then personal videos cameras and webcams
investigation of online predators can sometimes involve digital video from webcams this type
of analysis examine the video for identification of objects in the video and the location
where it was shot
Box: 5.11 The RAID Levels
RAID data acquisitions are performed as a part of Computer forensic. RAID
stands for redundant array of independent discs.
It is category of disc drive that employees' multiple drives in combination for fault
tolerance and performance.
The use of raid describe is frequent on servers, the uses not generally necessary for
personal computer.
storage technology had become too expensive to place a large number of high-capacity hard
drive in the servers.
the response to the situation came through the concept of raid subsequently rate become very
popular.
Note that data stripping me spreading out block for each file access multiple disc drives. It was
a system developed as a solution to link together a large number of low-cost hard drive with a view
to form a single large capacity storage device that provided superior performance storage capacity
and reliability as compared to the older storage solutions. since then, RAID become widely
used and is deployed as an enterprise storage method in server market.
Attractiveness of RAID comes from the fat that the array of disc distributed the data across multiple
discs. however, the computer user and operating system to the serve such. The different RAID
levels are
level 0: this is nothing but a strip would Disc a rate without fault tolerance. it provides data
stripping but no redundancy. this results in an improved performance however it does not
deliver fault tolerance all data in the array is lost if one drive fails.
Jyo thi R, Assistant Professor, Dept. of ISE Introduction to Cyber Security (BETCK105I/205I) 22