Dogo Rangsang Research Journal UGC Care Group I Journal
ISSN : 2347-7180 Vol-09 Issue-03 September-December 2019
LITHOGRAPHY AND IT’S USE IN SEMICONDUCTOR INDUSTRIES
1SRIRAM PRADHAN, Gandhi Institute of Excellent Technocrats, Bhubaneswar, India
2SUCHITRA PRIYADARSHINI, Padmanava College of Engineering, Sundargarh, Odisha, India
ABSTRACT
The end of the 19th century brought about a change in the dynamics of computing by the development of the microprocessor.
Huge bedroom size computers began being replaced by portable, smaller sized desktops. Today the world is dominated by
silicon, which has circumscribed chip development for computers through microprocessors. Majority of the integrated
circuits that are manufactured at present are developed using the concept of Lithography. This paper presents a detailed
analysis of multiple Lithography methodologies as a means for advanced integrated circuit development. The study paper
primarily restricts to examples in the context of Lithography, surveying the various existing techniques of Lithography in
literature, examining feasible and efficient methods, highlighting the various pros and cons of each of them.
KEYWORDS
Etching, Lithography, Mirrors, Resist, Poly Silicon, Transistor & Wafer.
1. INTRODUCTION
In 1950’s chip manufacturers discovered that as the complexity of the circuits grew they faced new challenges
[2]. One was while building a circuit, all the connections should be intact otherwise the current would be
stopped within the circuit. Another problem was the speed complexity of the circuits. The circuits used in
computers primarily depend upon speed. If the components used in computers are too large or the wires joining
them are too long, then in that case the speed will become slow and get affected. In 1958 Jack Kilby established
an answer to this problem. He made all the parts from the same block of material and added a layer of metal on
top of it to connect them together. As a result no more of wires and components had to be assembled manually.
The circuits could easily be made smaller and the manufacturing process could be computerized. Integrated
circuits have come long way since the Jack Kilby’s first model. His idea changed the future of microprocessor
industry and is the key element behind our computer society.
Integrated circuit is considered as the advanced form of electrical circuit. Different electrical components
including transistors, capacitors, diodes and capacitors make an electrical circuit. These components act as
building blocks in an electrical manufacture gear. It can help us construct computer microprocessor or burglar
alarm. The advent of integrated circuits (ICs) technology facilitated the placement of large number of
transistors on a single chip, thereby playing an important role in solving problems of logic circuits by
improving power consumption and speed performance.
Today most advanced circuits can be developed with billions of transistors embedded in them [5]. Every year as
the technology is advancing; the chips are becoming more powerful and cheaper.
Page | 520 Copyright @ 2019 Authors