Dogo Rangsang Research Journal UGC Care Group I Journal
ISSN : 2347-7180 Vol-09 Issue-03 September-December 2019
Advantages:
 It helps in saving time and cost of manufacturing ICs is less.
 It helps in manufacturing large amount of chips at one time. We can fabricate 200 or 1000 chips
instead of one easily.
 Wide ranges of resists are available.
Disadvantages:
 Since the wavelength of light is getting smaller, glasses lenses designed to focus the light rather absorb
the light and very less light is able to reach on the silicon wafer.
 Lack of availability of lamps.
 A mismatch can occur between the lamp and the resist used.
Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography
In order to keep pace with growing demands of manufacturing small feature size integrated chips, a new way of
reducing the wavelength has been discovered using Extreme Ultraviolet Lithography. Deep ultra violet
Lithography used radiation of wavelength of 248 nm to print the small-scale features on the wafer. Resolution =
K1×λ
Where λ is the wavelength and NA is the numerical aperture. K1 here is 0.25, since below that double
patterning has to be applied which is costly and numerical aperture should not exceed 1.35 as it requires high
index lenses and fluid which are not currently available.
Resolution = 0.25×193 = 36nm
One of the important Problems is reducing the wavelength of light and extreme ultraviolet Lithography comes
into the picture and plays an important role in optical Lithography.
Procedure
Step 1: Wavelength of 13.5nm is used for EUV. In order to produce such small wavelength, an excited state
atom is required and therefore tin (Sn) is commonly used which is already highly positively charged. Vacuum
plays an important role since wavelength of light is so small that it can easily be absorbed by air. Accordingly
everything ranging from optics to mask is placed inside a vacuum to generate plasma.
Step 2: There are two methods through which high-energy photons can be generated for making the pattern on
the wafer [11]. Figure 6 shows the layout for producing EUV Lithography.
a. Laser Pulsed Plasma:
i. A pulse laser is fired onto the incoming tin (Sn) droplets which puts these droplets in the excited
state and when comes to relaxed state generates EUV photons. A mirror focuses these photons to an
intermediate focus (If) and passes it to the next level. The size of the tiny tin (Sn) droplets is usually
of diameter 50-100μm.
b. Discharged Pulsed Plasma:
i. Plasma can also be produced by Discharged rather than laser pulsed plasma where two tin baths are
used which are filled by molten tin and two disks are placed which rotate and pick up tin on their
surface when rotated in tin bath. Apply voltage and throw laser which puts the tin to an excited state
and when it comes to relaxed state it generates EUV photons.
Page | 529 Copyright @ 2019 Authors