Dogo Rangsang Research Journal UGC Care Group I Journal
ISSN : 2347-7180 Vol-09 Issue-03 September-December 2019
Figure 6. Layout for producing EUV Lithography
Step 3: After the photons get generated, concave and convex mirrors and not glasses are used since it does not
refract instead reflect.
Step 4: A mask, which contains the pattern, is acted upon by light, which is focused onto the particular pattern
while some light passes through it without even touching the pattern. EUV Lithography involves reflective
optics as well as reflective mask and Brag reflector is used to make this happen.
Step 5: Brag Reflector: Each of the mirrors contain alternate layers of molybdenum (Mo) and silicon layers
which give a reflection of about 70 percent and together form a brag reflector and will only reflect the light
coming at 13.5nm and others will just pass away.
Step 6: The light then makes the pattern of the mask on the EUV resist coated wafer.
Advantages:
 Helps in producing minimum feature size.
 Numbers of transistors have increased successively which have resulted in greater speed.
 Provides high throughput.
 Provides good resolution due to low value of wavelength.
Disadvantages
 Source Problems
1. Brightness: The laser producing plasma is too dim .It has a factor of 10-100x and less throughput is
obtained
2. Reliability and time problems are commonly faced. EUV process can’t be carried out the whole day
since source available is only 0.7 percent and the collector used for tin gets damaged.
3. Tin debris: sometimes laser doesn’t hit the tin droplets and get collected to form debris on the
collector which can damage the collector and needs to be removed.
 Mask Problems
1. Any defects on the mask that gets printed on the wafer will destroy the wafer and defect free mask
is required but for EUV defect free mask is not available.
2. Adequate technology is not available which can easily detect any kind of defect with printing nor
we have repair methods, which can easily repair the defects, and also if there is defect in the molten
layer, then there is no method to repair that defect.
Page | 530 Copyright @ 2019 Authors