CISSP All-in-One Exam Guide
2
Things have changed, however, and today corporations and other organizations are
desperate to recruit talented and experienced security professionals to help protect the
resources they depend on to run their businesses and to remain competitive. With a
CISSP certification, you will be seen as a security professional of proven ability who has
successfully met a predefined standard of knowledge and experience that is well under-
stood and respected throughout the industry. By keeping this certification current, you
will demonstrate your dedication to staying abreast of security developments.
Consider the reasons for attaining a CISSP certification:
• To meet the growing demand and to thrive in an ever-expanding field
• To broaden your current knowledge of security concepts and practices
• To bring security expertise to your current occupation
• To become more marketable in a competitive workforce
• To show a dedication to the security discipline
• To increase your salary and be eligible for more employment opportunities
The CISSP certification helps companies identify which individuals have the ability,
knowledge, and experience necessary to implement solid security practices; perform
risk analysis; identify necessary countermeasures; and help the organization as a whole
protect its facility, network, systems, and information. The CISSP certification also
shows potential employers you have achieved a level of proficiency and expertise in
skill sets and knowledge required by the security industry. The increasing importance
placed on security in corporate success will only continue in the future, leading to even
greater demands for highly skilled security professionals. The CISSP certification shows
that a respected third-party organization has recognized an individual’s technical and
theoretical knowledge and expertise, and distinguishes that individual from those who
lack this level of knowledge.
Understanding and implementing security practices is an essential part of being a
good network administrator, programmer, or engineer. Job descriptions that do not
specifically target security professionals still often require that a potential candidate
have a good understanding of security concepts as well as how to implement them. Due
to staff size and budget restraints, many organizations can’t afford separate network
and security staffs. But they still believe security is vital to their organization. Thus, they
often try to combine knowledge of technology and security into a single role. With a
CISSP designation, you can put yourself head and shoulders above other individuals in
this regard.
The CISSP Exam
Because the CISSP exam covers the ten domains making up the CISSP Common Body
of Knowledge (CBK), it is often described as being “an inch deep and a mile wide,” a
reference to the fact that many questions on the exam are not very detailed and do not
require you to be an expert in every subject. However, the questions do require you to
be familiar with many different security subjects.