CISSP All-in-One Exam Guide
6
Domain Description
Physical (Environmental) This domain examines threats, risks, and countermeasures to protect
Security facilities, hardware, data, media, and personnel. This involves facility
selection, authorized entry methods, and environmental and safety
procedures. Some of the topics covered include
• Restricted areas, authorization methods, and controls
• Motion detectors, sensors, and alarms
• Intrusion detection
• Fire detection, prevention, and suppression
• Fencing, security guards, and security badge types
Table 1-1 Security Domains That Make Up the CISSP CBK (continued)
(ISC)2 attempts to keep up with changes in technology and methodologies in the
security field by adding numerous new questions to the test question bank each year.
These questions are based on current technologies, practices, approaches, and stan-
dards. For example, the CISSP exam given in 1998 did not have questions pertaining to
wireless security, cross-site scripting attacks, or IPv6.
Other examples of material not on past exams include security governance, instant
messaging, phishing, botnets, VoIP, and spam. Though these subjects weren’t issues in
the past, they are now.
The test is based on internationally accepted information security standards and
practices. If you look at the (ISC)2 website for test dates and locations, you may find, for
example, that the same test is offered this Tuesday in California and next Wednesday in
Saudi Arabia.
If you do not pass the exam, you have the option of retaking it as soon as you like.
(ISC)2 used to subject individuals to a waiting period before they could retake the exam,
but this rule has been removed. (ISC)2 keeps track of which exam version you were
given on your first attempt and ensures you receive a different version for any retakes.
(ISC)2 also provides a report to a CISSP candidate who did not pass the exam, detailing
the areas where the candidate was weakest. Though you could retake the exam soon
afterward, it’s wise to devote additional time to these weak areas to improve your score
on the retest.
CISSP: A Brief History
Historically, the field of computer and information security has not been a structured
and disciplined profession; rather, the field has lacked many well-defined professional
objectives and thus has often been misperceived.
In the mid-1980s, members of the computer security profession recognized that
they needed a certification program that would give their profession structure and pro-
vide ways for security professionals to demonstrate competence and to present evi-
dence of their qualifications. Establishing such a program would help the credibility of
the security profession as a whole and the individuals who comprise it.
In November 1988, the Special Interest Group for Computer Security (SIG-CS) of
the Data Processing Management Association (DPMA) brought together several organi-