Chapter 1: Becoming a CISSP
7
zations interested in forming a security certification program. They included the Infor-
mation Systems Security Association (ISSA), the Canadian Information Processing
Society (CIPS), the Computer Security Institute (CSI), Idaho State University, and sev-
eral U.S. and Canadian government agencies. As a voluntary joint effort, these organi-
zations developed the necessary components to offer a full-fledged security certification
for interested professionals. (ISC)2 was formed in mid-1989 as a nonprofit corporation
to develop a security certification program for information systems security practitio-
ners. The certification was designed to measure professional competence and to help
companies in their selection of security professionals and personnel. (ISC)2 was estab-
lished in North America, but quickly gained international acceptance and now offers
testing capabilities all over the world.
Because security is such a broad and diversified field in the technology and business
world, the original consortium decided on an information systems security CBK com-
posed of ten domains that pertain to every part of computer, network, business, and
information security. In addition, because technology continues to rapidly evolve, stay-
ing up-to-date on security trends, technology, and business developments is required to
maintain the CISSP certification. The group also developed a Code of Ethics, test speci-
fications, a draft study guide, and the exam itself.
How Do You Sign Up for the Exam?
To become a CISSP, start at www.isc2.org, where you will find an exam registration
form you must fill out and send to (ISC)2. You will be asked to provide your security
work history, as well as documents for the necessary educational requirements. You
will also be asked to read the (ISC)2 Code of Ethics and to sign a form indicating that
you understand these requirements and promise to abide by them. You then provide
payment along with the completed registration form, where you indicate your prefer-
ence as to the exam location. The numerous testing sites and dates can be found at
www.isc2.org.
What Does This Book Cover?
This book covers everything you need to know to become an (ISC)2-certified CISSP. It
teaches you the hows and whys behind organization’s development and implementa-
tion of policies, procedures, guidelines, and standards. It covers network, application,
and system vulnerabilities; what exploits them; and how to counter these threats. The
book explains physical security, operational security, and why systems implement the
security mechanisms they do. It also reviews the U.S. and international security criteria
and evaluations performed on systems for assurance ratings, what these criteria
mean,and why they are used. This book also explains the legal and liability issues that
surround computer systems and the data they hold, including such subjects as com-
puter crimes, forensics, and what should be done to properly prepare computer evi-
dence associated with these topics for court.
While this book is mainly intended to be used as a study guide for the CISSP exam,
it is also a handy reference guide for use after your certification.