ISSN 2348-1196 (print)
International Journal of Computer Science and Information Technology Research ISSN 2348-120X (online)
Vol. 2, Issue 2, pp: (373-377), Month: April-June 2014, Available at: www.researchpublish.com
An Introduction to Computer Networking
Sumit Ahlawat#1, Anshul Anand#2
#1M.Tech Student, #2Asst. Professor
Department of CSE, Shri Baba Mastnath Engineering College, Rohtak (INDIA)
Abstract: Computer networks are a system of interconnected computers for the purpose of sharing digital
information. The concept of a network began in 1962 when a server at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology
was connected to a server in Santa Monica, California. Since that time the proliferation of computers and
computer networks has increased significantly. One of the most significant challenges to networks is attacks on
their resources caused by inadequate network security. In this research paper we highlight and overview concept
of computer networks.
Keywords: Computer networks, protocols, network security.
I. INTRODUCTION
A computer network or data network is a telecommunications network that allows computers to exchange data. In
computer networks, networked computing devices pass data to each other along data connections. The connections
(network links) between nodes are established using either cable media or wireless media. The best-known computer
network is the Internet. Network computer devices that originate, route and terminate the data are called network nodes.
Nodes can include hosts such as personal computers, phones, servers as well as networking hardware. Two such devices
are said to be networked together when one device is able to exchange information with the other device, whether or not
they have a direct connection to each other. Computer networks support applications such as access to the World Wide
Web, shared use of application and storage servers, printers, and fax machines, and use of email and instant messaging
applications. Computer networks differ in the physical media used to transmit their signals, the communications protocols
to organize network traffic, the network's size, topology and organizational intent.
II. HISTORY
Making devices talk to each other for the purposes of communication is nothing new. Early forays into telephony such as
the telegraph and telephone have since evolved into more complicated devices, and now a computer can be networked to
the Internet, another PC, or even a home stereo. In the early 1960s, individual computers had to be physically shared,
making the sharing of data and other information difficult. Seeing this was impractical, researchers developed a way to
“connect” the computers so they could share their resources more efficiently. Hence, the early computer network was
born.
Through the then-new communication protocol known as packet switching, a number of applications, such as secure
voice transmission in military channels became possible. These new circuits provided the basis for the communication
technologies of the rest of the 20th century, and with further refinement these were applied to computer networks. These
networks provided the basis for the early ARPANET, which was the forerunner of the modern Internet. The Advanced
Research Projects Agency (ARPA) submitted the proposal for the project on June 3, 1968 which was approved a few
weeks later. This proposal entitled “Resource Sharing Computer Networks” would allow ARPA not only the further
sharing of their data, but would allow them to further their research in a wide variety of military and scientific fields.
After being tested in four locations, the network spread and the new protocols created for its use evolved into today’s
World Wide Network.
Page | 37 3
Research Publish Journals